Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoya took his campaigns to Western Kenya at the weekend.  Prof Wajackoya told supporters in Kakamega yesterday that he was determined to fix the country’s economic challenges if elected president.  The controversial presidential hopeful said his government, if elected, will legalise the growing of marijuana for export market. According to him, exporting bhang will help address unemployment and raise the country's earning to help reduce the debt burden.    Prof Wajackoya said his administration would plant bhang on the 4,494.8 hectares of Mumias Sugar Company nucleus estate for export. On top of marijuana, Wajackoya says he will export dog and snake meat to China and other countries abroad to help increase the country’s earnings.  He was accompanied by his running mate Justina Wamae, who also drummed up support for their ticket.  According to Wajackoya, Kenya will realise profits once it embraces bhang farming. “We shall have enough earnings to change the state of the economy,” he assured his supporters.  He said his focus was on addressing youth unemployment and fixing the ailing economy.  “I will have Chinese citizens who have grabbed jobs in the country deported if elected. My government will export snakes and dogs overseas to make more money to pay off the country’s debts,” Wajackoya said.  Wajackoya said he was the best bet to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta and dismissed his rivals manifesto.  “I will create a 24-hour open economy so that our country can prosper.”  Ms Wamahe said the Roots Party government promise a  better future for the country and the region.  “We will address the inflation that has caused the price of food and fuel to rise unimaginably. If elected, we promise to ensure that your lives get better,” she said.  According to Wamahe, their government will ensure there is gender equity and will have more women holding government positions. The Roots Party leaders said they would ensure the rule of law prevails and those convicted are treated with dignity.  So far, Wajackoya has visited Vihiga, Bungoma and Kakamega counties to popularise his manifesto.  By Brian Kisanji | 15 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 days ago By Alexander Chagema | 3 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 5 days ago