President Kenyatta informed us in an exasperated voice, that we lose Sh2 billion daily to corruption. This means we lose more than Sh720 billion annually. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) estimates an annual loss of Sh608 billion to corruption, which they say is 7.8 per cent of our GDP.  But Kenyans aren’t shocked or alarmed by these pronouncements! This is because corruption is almost a way of life. Corruption broadly means “dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those in power, typically involving bribery.” It is a criminal offence involving those entrusted with positions of authority, who acquire illicit benefits or abuse power for their personal gain.  We know high levels of corruption have weakened our economy, making Kenya less competitive for economic investment because of increased business costs to investors. We also know widespread tax evasion and avoidance by the high and mighty, active/passive corruption, abuse of office, fraud in public procurement and demands for bribes by public officials hinder our long-term economic growth and sabotage our service delivery.  Corruption has permeated all aspects of our lives; it is everywhere; intricately woven in the very fabric of our society. And it is manifested in all forms and shapes such as facilitation fees, something small, “chai,” “gratitude” and small presents/gifts.  We encounter corruption in private companies/corporations, institutions of learning, shops and even in our homes. We bribe our children to behave better; we bribe voters, get services we are entitled to or because we don’t want to wait in line! Although there are laws which prohibit corruption and institutions to prosecute and punish it, selective or lack of enforcement undermines all efforts to end it. Impunity is one huge incentive.  In Kenya, if you are caught with your hands in the cookie jar, you will be punished to the extent of whom you know or are connected to, in government. There are those forced to resign and nothing is done to them as their cases drag in court for ages, while there are those who get transferred to a different government office, literally getting away with corruption.  No matter the elaborate legal and institutional framework in place to deal with corruption; as long as there is insufficient political will and incentives to vigorously enforce these anti-corruption laws and truly end impunity, corruption will continue to thrive, one government after another. Corruption is now very much entrenched in all aspects of our lives.  Therefore, when during the launch of their manifesto, the Azimio-One Kenya coalition party presidential candidate and running mate promised to conclusively deal with corruption, my hope was cautiously rekindled. Cautious, because they have both been in governments that have had the opportunity to end corruption but failed miserably. I am hopeful because they promised to focus also on prevention. This is encouraging.  Prevention also entails serious civic education on the causes, consequences and the impact of corruption to each one of us individually and collectively.  It is not enough to tell us what we lose as a country to corruption but how corruption costs us individually and impacts our families, sons and daughters or relatives. We must see how corruption kills our loved ones. We must bring corruption home.  To end corruption, we must bring its impacts closer to people. It is only when each one of us resolves to fight corruption that we can succeed because we, the people are the perpetrators.  When we stop, it will stop. There is no longer any shame in being corrupt, what is shameful is when one gets caught. We have all condoned, acquiesced and enjoyed proceeds of corruption, knowingly or unknowingly.  Therefore, we need to descend from our high horses, roll our sleeves and genuinely fight corruption. Making the fight against corruption top agenda for 2022 elections, is a great start.  But ensuring the next government is formed without anyone tainted by past insinuation of corruption or abuse of office, will give Kenya a fighting chance to end impunity and corruption.  By Ahmad Moalim | 3 hours ago By Mike Nyagwoka | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Isaac Kalua | 12 hours ago