Political parties are set for another hurdle in coming up with probable choices to fill nomination slots without shaking supporters' unity.  Disquiet has swept parts of the North Rift region amid claims of circulation of lists of United Democratic Alliance (UDA) proposed nominees without proper consultation.  Claims of insincerity and empty promises on the part of political parties have also been cited. The increase in the number of independent candidates has also disoriented parties' calculations.  Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei called for collective consultations to ensure only development-conscious people are listed. “We are aware of a list of UDA nominees circulating. As party members we want nominees who measure up to the ideals of the bottom-up economic model,” Mr Cherargei said.  The senator called for wider consultation of stakeholders including the Church, local council of elders, NGOs, opinion leaders, and other advisors to deliberate on the candidates. “The nominations should represent youths, mama mboga, and other ordinary hustlers,” the senator said at a funeral in Nandi. Mr Cherargei said despite the intimidation of key UDA leaders by the government, the party is destined for victory and will deliver on its pledges.  Mr Ezekiel Lelei, an independent candidate for Lelmokwo/Ngechek ward in Nandi, said they support DP William Ruto's candidature and urged party supporters not to frustrate independent candidates.  Mr Lelei lost narrowly in the UDA nomination, citing marred irregularities. “There is no honesty among political leaders who try to bar strong independent candidates from seeking elective seats by giving promises that are not implemented,” he said.  He added: “I stepped down in 2018 after Jubilee persuaded me to leave the race as an independent candidate with a promise of giving me other government roles. After the elections, I was invited for interviews but was never appointed despite qualifying. I ended up shuttling from one office to another unsuccessfully.”  Mr Lelei urged voters in Lelmokwo/Ngechek to focus on service-oriented leaders and not parties.  By Julius Chepkwony | 15 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 23 hours ago By Titus Too | 2 days ago By Standard Team | 2 days ago