Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga’s government will have zero tolerance for corruption, with far-reaching anti-graft measures put in place in the first 100 days in office.  The fight against corruption, as a component of good governance, is just one of the things Raila has prioritised should he win the August 9 elections.   Besides good governance, Raila plans an economic revolution, social transformation and good governance in the first three months.    In the first 100 days, for example, members of Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance—elected and appointed— will be expected to sign an undertaking that they will step down should their dockets be bedeviled by graft.  Those elected or appointed will be required to declare their wealth in the first 100 days. They proposals are contained in the Azimio’s Manifesto which was released yesterday,   “This Azimio Vision honours the sacrifices of preceding generations, builds on the gains already secured, and will in no way corrode the commonwealth and our national heritage by succumbing to greed, corruption, and culture which only abets self-advancement of a few individuals,” said Raila in the forward of the 41-page manifesto.  In the document, Azimio has also promised to declare corruption a threat to national security. It plans to establish a specialised department within the security agencies dedicated to corruption surveillance.  Conflict of interest  It will expect public servants to sign a specific anti-corruption charter promising not to engage in any conflict of interest between public and private affairs.  The fight against corruption is at the heart of Raila’s ambitious plan to grow and equitably spread wealth, with the former Prime Minister hoping to unlock more cash by going after looted wealth. However, the manifesto is also replete with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s unfinished business, including the Big Four Agenda, with some of them expected to be implemented in the first 100 days.  Raila’s government promises to adopt a policy that ring-fences 69 items used for the building of affordable houses under Affordable Housing Programme to Jua Kali artisans.  Moreover, Azimio also promises to connect Jua kali manufacturers with orders for the doors, windows, nails, hinges, and all the other 69 items, under the Affordable Housing Programme, one of President Kenyatta’s promises.  Manufacturing, another of President Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda, is also at the heart of Raila’s development agenda with the former Prime Minister continuing with Kenyatta’s policy of ‘Buy-Kenya-Build Kenya.’  He has also promises to unveil his own Universal Health Care—dubbed BabaCare—which had also been under the banner of the Big Four Agenda. Also in the first 100 days, his government will start implementing the cash transfer of Sh6,000 per month to each vulnerable household.  Single mothers will also begin receiving assistance from the State in the first 100 days, even as a social protection programme for unemployed youths modeled around Kazi Mtaani is rolled out. This is the same with ensuring that Kenyans have access to enough and nutritious food.  Raila plans to bring down the cost of electricity in the first 100 days continuing where Uhuru had left off, having helped bring down the cost of power by 15 per cent.  In his first days in office, Raila will also come up with another economic stimulus package aimed at turbo-charging the economy.  Those found guilty of poaching ivory will also be handed a life sentence, in one of Raila’s far-reaching proposals.    He also promised to immediately pay compensation awards made by courts to victims of injustices by the state. Under Raila’s government, there will be the Kenya National Languages Council to promote all indigenous and sign language and provide a comprehensive digital dictionary for all languages.  Raila’s government will also establish the “Office of victims of extra-judicial killings, torture, renditions and enforced disappearances” to investigate all such cases and recommend appropriate measures.  By Muriithi Mugo | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich and Grace Ng'ang'a | 5 hours ago By Tony Sisule | 5 hours ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago