Police have recovered a vehicle that was stolen from an elderly man in Naivasha, Nakuru County on Sunday, June 12.  The car, a Nissan Sunny, was allegedly stolen by a youthful woman while the 68-year-old man was relieving himself in a thicket on the Nakuru-Nairobi highway.  Naivasha Sub-County Police Commander Samuel Waweru told The Standard that the suspect was involved in a crash at Kabete area in Kiambu County on Monday night.  “The suspect was was driving towards Nairobi when she rammed a vehicle headed the same direction. Passengers in the hit car sustained head injuries,” said Waweru.  “One more vehicle was also damaged during the accident,” added the Naivasha police boss. Police say the woman was with another person in the car during the crash. Both suspects escaped after the accident, said Waweru.  “The wreckages of the vehicles were towed to Kabete Police Station. We have crucial leads that will help us track down the suspects.”  On Sunday, the female suspect sped off with the man’s car while he was relieving himself on the roadside on their way to Naivasha from Mai Mahiu.  The two had met at Mai Mahiu Town to finalise a land transaction, in which the woman posed as a land buyer.  On Sunday, the man, who buys and sells land, left Narok for Mai Mahiu to meet the woman.  After the meeting, the woman convinced the man to spend the night with her in Naivasha Town, saying it was too late for the elderly man to drive back to Narok, some 90 kilometres away.  The man agreed, and due to his poor night vision, he allowed the woman to drive.  On their way to Naivasha, the elderly man said he wanted to relieve himself and asked the woman to pull over.  During a short call of nature in a roadside thicket, the woman is alleged to have sped off with the man’s car, leaving him stranded on the Nakuru-Nairobi Highway.  The victim also lost Sh7,000 in cash and other personal items.  Naivasha Sub-County Police Commander Samuel Waweru confirmed the incident to The Standard, saying boda boda operators helped the stranded man file a report at Karai Police Station.  Elsewhere, police in Naivasha are pursuing a driver who escaped after hitting and killing a pedestrian on the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway on Monday night, June 13.  The victim, a middle-aged man was crossing the road at Laini trading centre, when the offending driver hit him. The victim died on the spot.  “The offending driver was heading towards Naivasha Town,” said the area police boss Waweru.  “Some members of the public managed to capture the vehicle’s registration details. We hope to use the details to track down the suspect.”  By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 9 hours ago By James Omoro | 11 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 13 hours ago