The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has received 160 disputes arising from the just-concluded nationwide candidate registration process.  The process of registering candidates interested in political seats in the upcoming polls officially closed on Tuesday, June 8.  In a press briefing on Wednesday night, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati said that the commission had laid plans to ensure all the disputes filed were heard and determined before printing ballot papers begin early next month.  “There are 160 disputes filed with the commission after the nationwide registration of candidates came to an end yesterday. The hearing of the disputes will begin on June 10 and takes ten days from the end of the registration process,” Chebukati said.  He was addressing journalists at the Bomas of Kenya. “All disputes filed with the commission will be settled by June 30 before we start printing ballot papers at around the same period,”  Yesterday, Independent presidential aspirant Reuben Kigame moved to court seeking orders to bar the IEBC from processing the papers of other presidential candidates.  He wanted the process halted until his petition is heard and determined, days after he was struck off the presidential race for failing to comply with the electoral body's set requirements.  Court documents shared with the media showed that the gospel artist wants an order issued by the courts, compelling the IEBC to accept the documents he has submitted pending the hearing and determination of his application.  The process saw 57 candidates who were eyeing the presidency reduced to four after the majority failed to meet the commission’s requirements.  Jimi Wanjigi, Reuben Kigame, and Mwangi Wa Iria are among the presidential aspirants who disputed the process of candidate registration.  It is not clear which presidential aspirants have challenged IEBC in the courts.  Today, Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has also filed an application at the Mombasa High Court seeking to stop the gazettement of six governor candidates cleared by the electoral agency pending his clearance.  He wants to be allowed to present a complaint against the IEBC's Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC) for declining to clear his papers.  Justice John Mativo certified his application as urgent and allowed for judicial review on June 14 but declined to serve a stay order on the IEBC decision barring him to vie pending the hearing of the application inter-parties.  On Tuesday, Sonko suffered a setback after the IEBC declined to clear him for failure to meet regulations on leadership and integrity following his December 2020 impeachment by the Nairobi county assembly.  By Stephanie Wangari | 53 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By Too Jared | 8 hours ago