Nairobi gubernatorial aspirant Senator Johnson Sakaja and his running mate James Muchiri have been cleared to run for the seat on UDA ticket.  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) cleared the two on Tuesday, June 7, three days after the commission gave a nod to the Polycarp Igathe - Philip Kaloki pair who are running for the seat on Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition ticket.  Sakaja and Muchiri while on a campaign tour in Kasarani, shortly after clearance, told the residents they were confident of clinching the county’s top office in the August polls.  He promised not to let Nairobians down if elected governor.  “I want to promise you; we will not sleep. Well are combing every corner of the city selling our agenda, optimistic of winning the election,” said Sakaja.   After being cleared and receiving the certificate on June 4, Igathe and Kaloki hit the road promising to secure a win for the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition in the capital.  “I can confirm to the millions of supporters in the county, that the IEBC has accepted the Igathe-Kaloki ticket and we have asked them to get ready to count for over 1.5 million votes on August 9,” said Igathe.  The IEBC nod opens a fierce political battle in the capital pitting the Azimio-One Kenya coalition against their Kenya Kwanza challengers.  Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga will be banking on their influences to tilt votes in their favour.  IEBC on Sunday, June 5, also cleared businesswoman Agnes Kagure alongside Abel Onchari Oyieyo as her running mate as the two seek to clinch the county’s top seat.  “I am a firm believer in the youth's potential and ability to lead and shape important policies as opposed to just being cheerleaders and goons for hire. This is why I settled on the youthful Abel Onchari Oyieyo as my running mate and Deputy Governor designate,” she wrote on her Facebook wall after receiving the certificate.  Kenneth Nyamwamu and his running mate Lilian Tina Achieng are also eying for the city’s top seat on United Progressive Alliance Party ticket.  By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago By David Njaaga | 7 hours ago By Nancy Nzau | 2 days ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 days ago