Kenya Kwanza coalition led by DP William Ruto and Musalia Mudavadi has said it will hold negotiations to find consensus in areas where coalition parties have fielded candidates.  Speaking after attending a church service at PAG Gatina in Kawangware, the duo accompanied by Nairobi Governor candidate Johnson Sakaja said the coalition intends to field one candidate per seat.  “Those vying for MP and MCA in various constituencies and wards are our candidates. We will hold negotiations to agree on the way forward,” Ruto said.    Mudavadi said there will be no fallout in Kenya Kwanza because of the many coalition candidates. “For President there is no debate, for Governor we support Sakaja and there is no debate, for MP for Dagoretti North there is no debate. But for MCAs where we have many candidates in UDA and ANC, let’s agree on how to deal with it,” Mudavadi said.  The DP said his clearance by IEBC on Saturday was a culmination of preparations in a journey where he faced numerous hurdles.  “I have been fought, people close to me have been arrested, some have been framed and had court cases initiated against them. Others have been bribed to abandon supporting me. False prophets said we would not reach here but they have been proved wrong,” Ruto said.  The DP said his presidency would aim to lift the lowest of society and give everyone an opportunity.  “Many Kenyans want to know how their lives will improve. The cost of living is high, the price of food is beyond reach for many and Kenyans wonder what the future holds. This journey should lift every Kenyan from their present circumstances and their present conditions. No Kenyan should be left behind,” he said.  UDA running mate Rigathi Gachagua told the congregation he was happy that the church had taken a position to support Ruto for President and Sakaja for governor.  “We know those who have said they will close the churches and those who support churches. We want Christians to be wise in making their decision,” Gachagua said.  Speaking at a separate function, Ruto told off political detractors who have been claiming that he would not be on the ballot.  The DP said not a single church will be shut down under his leadership as some leaders have insinuated would happen should they take over.    Ruto made the remarks at Saint Paul ACK Mother Church in Kabete Constituency in Kiambu County yesterday asked Christians to pray for the country as it heads to the General Election.  “The Bottom-Up Economic Model is God’s will since he will lift up the downtrodden to the seats on the high table with Kenyans, we look forward to having every Kenyan uplifted when we get to power in August,” said Ruto.  On his part, Gachagua asked Kenyans not to elect Azimio La Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga since his first priority will be to change the Constitution.  Also present was Mudavadi, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi among others.   [Additional reporting by Edwin Nyarangi]   By David Njaaga | 26 minutes ago By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago By Biketi Kikechi | 1 hour ago By Clement Masombo | 2 hours ago