Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga has pledged to revive and actualise the Vision 2030 to bring Kenya back to its growth path if elected.   Addressing a rally in Masinga town after attending a Sunday mass at Masinga Catholic Church in Machakos County, Odinga declared that Azimio’s major focus would be to set up policies for economic transformation to enable the majority of Kenyans pull out of poverty.  “Our main agenda is to improve the livelihoods of all Kenyans... We had already begun programmes with the late retired president Mwai Kibaki and we are confident and certain we will swiftly move towards achieving that,” he promised.  While courting the Kamba community to support his presidential bid, Odinga assured that pledges made by the Azimio coalition are achievable.  He outlined his plan to improve the country’s ailing healthcare system through what he referred to as Baba Care programme, in which all citizens will access free and quality healthcare in all public health institutions. “Baba Care will take the model of former US president Barrack Obama’s Obamacare. We will endeavour to establish healthcare institutions and bring services closer to the people. Under this plan, all Kenyans will be put on a health insurance plan where those without any income will be covered by the State for free,” explained the Azimio presidential candidate.   He revisited his proposal for the establishment of stable garment manufacturing industries, insisting the plan is not to drive out of business second-hand cloth dealers but create locally available materials and products.   Raila also pledged to put in place modern agricultural programs to revitalize the country’s agriculture and boost Kenya’s food production. “We will introduce smart agriculture and provide farming water to the citizens. We will ensure our people will not walk for long distances in search of water anymore,” he promised.  According to the Azimio leader, the social protection programme advanced in his manifesto will be actualized beginning next year to protect vulnerable citizens from languishing in poverty and restore dignity to those faced with acute economic challenges.  Raila was hosted by Wiper party leader Mr Kalonzo Musyoka and a host of Ukambani politicians.  He told supporters why he opted to work with Raila. “After a week of meditation and consultations, I decided that this country should not go to waste after the General Election and decided to work with Raila. Those who thought I will get lost will instead fall in the same trap,” he said.  They addressed more rallies in Matuu and Masii towns and later Athi River.    By Jacob Ng’etich and Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Standard Team | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago