Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has faulted Deputy President Willian Ruto’s track record and dismissed claims that the DP has built latrines and schools in Gusii region.  He said the DP has been on a lying spree over his development credentials in the region. “Where is even a latrine he has built in any of the struggling schools around here? Why can’t he pass by and do something we can remember him for if indeed he means well?” posed the CS.  He challenged Ruto to show any school in Gusii that he helped to build over the last 10 years he has been in government.  Dr Matiang’i was addressing students, parents, teachers and dignitaries at St Kizito Boys Nyansiongo High School where he dismissed Ruto for empty rhetoric to the people of Gusii.  He particularly took issue with Ruto for allegedly perpetuating lies about his goodwill to the region saying the DP was on a mission to ‘loiter’ around to look for votes when he has never done anything meaningful in the area. He told Ruto off for giving an empty pledge of ending insecurity in Borabu, a challenge the CS said he had conclusively dealt with.  “It is laughable that someone could pass around and sell empty rhetoric to you that he will end insecurity and cattle rustling along the borders of Bomet, Narok and Nyamira, an issue the government dealt with about six years ago when I took over the interior docket,” he said.  The CS defended himself against detractors whom he said were out to malign his performance. He said he would be the last person supporting President Uhuru even if it meant anyone else moved to the opposition.  “Since the history of our Gusii political godfathers, we have never seen anyone in the position of cabinet post leading his community against the government of the day. It has never happened and at all costs, I cannot be the one to break this norm that has seen us earn a lot of trust from governments of the day,” he said.  Matiang’i was accompanied by his Education counterpart George Magoha and Health PS Susan Mochache among senior government officials, who helped in raising funds for the school.  Prof Magoha said he will continue to be loyal to President Uhuru and that he was not worried whether he will be serving in the next government or not.  “I am doing my job as it is supposed to be and even if few people are appreciating the much work we are doing, it will not matter because I know the Lord will be having a reward that no one can give me,” he said.  Dr Mochache rallied the Gusii to support the Azimio La Umoja’s Raila-Karua presidency.  “The combination of Raila and Karua will be perfect and we need to give them full support by voting them in for prosperity that we have always yearned for,” she said.  About Sh11 million was raised in aid of the school’s dormitory project with the Principal Ezekiel Nyagara assuring the government of transforming the school into a national academic giant.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 7 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 7 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 15 hours ago