Nairobi will be a battleground after notable politicians were cleared by the electoral agency to contest in the August 9 elections.  Makadara MP George Aladwa was cleared by Makadara IEBC returning officer Jesse Tonui yesterday to defend the seat.  Mr Aladwa was the third candidate to be cleared for the seat.  “I have a big agenda for helping the great people of Makadara. For the last four and half years as MP, I have invested heavily in education through building new schools, infrastructure in existing ones and bursaries for needy students, road network and economic empowerment of our youth and women. We want economic liberation for them,” he said.  The MP will face off with businessman and former ODM Youth League leader Japheth Kiio of Chama cha Uzalendo. Former Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi was also cleared to vie for Dagoretti North MP, which is currently held by MP Simba Arati who has declared interest in Kisii governorship.  Former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru got IEBC's nod to contest for Senate. Bishop Wanjiru is seeking to succeed Senator Johnson Sakaja who has thrown his hat in the ring for governor.  The former MP had shown interest in the governor's seat, but withdrew from the race in favour of Mr Sakaja following consensus in UDA party. She unsuccessfully contested for Nairobi governor in 2017.  She promised better service delivery to residents.  "I saw the governorship seat exerting a lot of heat and agreed to allow my brother Sakaja fly our party flag while I go for the senatorial. I urge Nairobians to vote for me and I will ensure service delivery," she said.  Bishop Wanjiru was accompanied by gospel musician ‘Roughtone’ Smith Mwatia who had declared interest in the seat but withdrew from the race.  She will battle it out with ODM’s Edwin Sifuna who is making his second stab for the seat.  Others who have been cleared are Embakasi West MP George Theuri. The second-term legislator is defending the seat on a UDA ticket.  By Grace Ng'ang'a | 55 minutes ago By Standard Team | 13 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 21 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 21 hours ago