An 18-year-old shooter killed 21 people recently, including 19 children, at a Texas elementary school. Gunmen have murdered many innocent Americans in the past.  Adam Lanza, a 20-year-old at Sandy Hook Primary School in Connecticut, shot 70 people, including 20 six-year-olds, in December 2012. Adam Lanza had shot his mother an hour earlier.  The American dream gardener was horrified by the episode and confused by its occurrence in a sophisticated and civilised country like the US.  Those who know American culture realise that this brutal occurrence is not unique. An unknown shooter murders innocent people indiscriminately in one US state or another every year.  When a horrible occurrence happens, the US President delivers an impassioned statement and vows to prevent similar incidents. For a few days, the media covers the occurrence, intellectuals and specialists give solutions, and then the subject evaporates until another tragedy occurs.  After Sandy Hook, President Barack Obama made an impassioned address and visited the school, expressing his sadness for the victims' families and the ever-increasing number of firearms. Global media supported Obama's passionate reaction.  Instead of investigating such incidents, governments debate and prioritise tightening gun prohibitions. The Democrats, who support the Democratic Party on the issue, argue gun rules are so permissive that any citizen may obtain a gun.  In America, 5 per cent of the population owns 42 per cent of the world's firearms. Liberals say gun regulations must be strengthened to end this deadly culture and make firearms less accessible. It also argues gun lobbies like the NRA must be cracked down on.  American culture is an individualistic, self-centered, humanistic capitalist society. In the social growth process, individuals start seeing each other as separate from a group. Every issue is treated individually instead of collectively.  Everyone needs a gun for self-defence. With American society's violent culture and limited history, it is evident that the issue is deeper and more organised, and the exercises being undertaken as a remedy don't even circle around the initial problem.  Tightening gun rules is a shallow answer to a complicated and severe issue. It's infantile to blame a gun-like instrument for such tragedies.  Gun laws are not new. Such regulations have been discussed. There have been some legal adjustments, but the general effect is that blacks and minorities are nazified while privileged white Americans carry firearms and are murderous.  Guns are also available in the scheme. 'Buy boots and guns absolutely free'. "Open a bank account, gun free." "Pistols with assault rifles are absolutely free."  Anyone can buy as many guns as they want. The group that manufactures and sells weapons there, affectionately known as the "gun lobby", strongly advocates the "right to arms" enshrined in the constitution.  The buyer must have an ID to exercise this constitutional right. And they think they are smarter if he owns a deadly weapon. With the assistance of the media, gun ownership has become a symbol of independence and liberty.  Guns represent freedom and supremacy to millions of Americans. People feel afraid when the government can't protect them and seeks to limit their gun rights.  Gun culture is considered a social revolution and gives individuals a feeling of identity. Problematic identity, that's the fight, and the outcome is that individuals stand up to it, but Americans continue to suffer.  By Editorial | 1 hour ago By Kalangi Kiambati | 8 hours ago By Pauline Kedogo | 8 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago