Kirinyaga Water and Sanitation Company Limited (Kiriwasco) is set to roll out automated pre-paid water metering system to increase efficiency in water supply.  The token meters were introduced for piloting in an event held at Sagana on Saturday.   In a speech read by Environment, Water and Natural Resources Executive Jackan Gutu during the launch of Kiriwasco’s Strategic Plan 2021-2026, Anne Waiguru said the system will provide a lasting solution to perennial complaints over water bills.  Waiguru said the system will also help customers control their spending on water, outage detection, tamper notification and reduced labour cost.  The company will also reduce cost of employing meter readers as the meters have accurate water consumption data for the billing purpose. “Installation of the automatic meters was a laudable initiative that the company has embraced, which will definitely place it among the most competitive water companies in the country,” she said.  Kiriwasco now becomes the fourth company to introduce such meters. The meters are already in use in Malindi, Bomet and Eldoret.  The governor also commissioned construction of a water bottling plant that will help the company tap into the bottled water market and expand its revenue streams.  “The bottling plant will boost the company’s revenue collection base,” the governor added.  Data provided by Kiriwasco shows that the county has a 66 per cent water supply coverage. Out of Kirinyaga County’s total population projection of 618,339 as at June 2020, 135,445 are served by 76 unregulated small-scale water service providers and 275,364 served by two regulated water service providers giving a total of 407,809.   The county boss said the launch of the Kiriwasco Strategic Plan 2021-2026 is providing the highest standards of water and sanitation services to the county residents.  By Mate Tongola | 5 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 3 days ago By Wainaina Ndung'u and Jane Mugambi | 7 days ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 8 days ago