The National Assembly adjourns its sittings indefinitely today, with members all set for the campaign season.     In case the Speaker, through the Leader of Majority does not recall members for a special sitting - which is unlikely - then it will be the end of the 12th Parliament, and a new House will be in place in two months.  "We are going home. We are finishing and this has been an eventful 12th Parliament,’’ said Leader of Minority John Mbadi.  Although the 12th Parliament will be adjourning indefinitely, it, however, does not strip serving members of their legislative role until the next Parliament is sworn in. This means they can be recalled anytime should members feel they have some pressing or unfinished business.  According to article 102 of the Constitution, the term of each House of the National Assembly and the Senate expires on the date of the next General Election.  "...Parliament may, by resolution supported in each House by at least two-thirds of all the members of the House, from time to time extend the term of Parliament by not more than six months at a time," the article states.  There had been requests from members to cut short the House business so that they could concentrate on election-related matters ahead of the August General Election.  Today, they will have a morning session from 9.30am, where they will have an opportunity to bid each other farewell as they head for campaigns.  Yesterday, the MPs debated several Bills, including the Kenya Revenue Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2022 which seeks to rename the commission to Kenya Revenue Service (KRS). The State-backed Bill proposes to rebrand the authority to transform its public image and enhance tax compliance through improved public relations.  The MPs argued that by changing the word "Authority" to Service, it would have a positive perception of the agency as it will be a friendly service-oriented institution.  KRA had first hinted at the name change through a social media post back on December 29, 2021, that acted as public participation where the commission sought views. "What are your thoughts around transitioning from Kenya Revenue Authority to Kenya Revenue Service?" the tweet read.  Treasury CS Ukur Yatani has also proposed the change. He revealed the plans during the presentation of the 2022-23 estimates to the National Assembly on April 7which was the last Budget reading under the Jubilee administration  "The name authority seems to have this commanding effect and authorities are feared. I think that’s why the Kenya Revenue Authority has become unpopular in some quarters much as they have tried to be friendly," said majority leader Amos Kimunya.  The Bill is now in the second reading and should MPs not be recalled for a special sitting, it will be moved to the 13th Parliament.  The members also approved a supplementary budget of Sh70 billion some of which will cater for the bills during the State burial of former President Mwai Kibaki that cost about Sh20 million, the meter-gauge railway and funding crucial for ministries ahead of the August 9 polls.  Some of the pending Bills include Supreme Court Bill 2022, Statute law (miscellaneous) amendment Bill 2022, Parliamentary Pensions (Amendment) Bill 2022, the Elections (Amendment) Bill 2021 and Huduma Bill 2021.  Other Bills put to question and could be debated by the next House include the Higher Education Loans Board (Amendment) Bill (third reading), The Supreme Court (Amendment) Bill (third reading), The Information Communication Technology Practitioners Bill (third reading), The Insurance Professionals Registration Bill (third reading) And The Traffic (Amendment) Bill, also at the third reading. Others are the Kenya School Of Law (Amendment) Bill (First Reading).  Senators are also expected to adjourn their sittings next week Thursday. Already the two Speakers Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Kenneth Lusaka of the Senate, have thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for the opportunity of serving.  By Stephanie Wangari | 53 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By Too Jared | 8 hours ago