Nandi County is again in sharp focus as governor candidates engage in rigorous campaigns after the outcome of the April United Democratic Alliance (UDA) nominations.  Candidates are on tight schedules seeking to pick from the spoils of the primaries and outdo one another, but from two main political formations in the region – UDA and Independent.  It is becoming an interesting political battlefield as five aspirants eyeing the seat, back Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid, while at the same time those contesting as independents want the electorates to elect a governor based on individual performance and not party affiliation.  The August 9 polls will be an acid test for incumbent and country’s youngest governor Stephen Sang who is defending his seat on a UDA ticket as Independent candidates dismiss his nomination, claiming it was ‘shambolic’.  Among Sang’s competitors is his predecessor Cleophas Lagat who lost in UDA primaries before deciding to contest as an Independent candidate. They will face off with other Independent candidates including Nicholas Koech an architect, who is making a second stab as an independent after emerging third in the 2017 general elections, Anderson Tirop and Peter Maiyo. With less than 70 days to the polls, it will be a wait and see for the county that makes the bedrock of Ruto’s North Rift home turf.  Nandi with six sub-counties - Mosop, Chesumei, Emgwen, Nandi Hills and Aldai is endowed with cash crops including tea, coffee and sugarcane.  It is well-connected by road, close to Eldoret International airport and has developed educational and health institutions and electorates expect a good manager to transform the opportunities and boost livelihoods.  Even though Sang is taking advantage of UDA’s six-piece election mode campaign that seeks to ensure presidential to MCAs vote goes to the party, Independent candidates instead back the election of DP Ruto as President and other candidates based on their respective track records.  One of the Independent candidates in the region cited the election of the current MP for Turbo, Ruto’s home constituency, Janet Sitienei who was elected as an Independent in 2017 when most electorates backed Uhuruto’s Jubilee political formation.  Former governor Dr Lagat who served between 2013 and 2017, when Sang was Senator is seeking a comeback saying as an Independent candidate, he wants to accomplish the projects he initiated, which have since been abandoned by Sang’s administration.  Dr Lagat has picked former two-term MP for Emgwen and Chesumei Mr Elijah Lagat as his running mate. Lagat was 2012 named fourth-best in the country in National Government Constituency Development Fund.  “We make the best combination to deliver quality services to the residents of Nandi. I want to complete my flagship projects that remained stalled after I left office five years ago,” stated Dr Lagat.  He cited a multi-million three-storey governors’ office at Kapsabet that was allegedly abandoned after his administration was voted out. Other projects Dr Lagat started include the famous Kipchoge Keino stadium in Kapsabet and another sporting facility in Nandi Hills.  “We are at the moment on an intensive meet the people forums as we seek to uplift the county. We want to ensure the electorates gain value for devolved funds disbursed to the county,” stated Dr Lagat.  The former county chief said his priority is to enhance education, agriculture, health, and infrastructure development among other sectors adding that his administration will empower the youth and women through affirmative action.  But Sang is leaving nothing to chance and has already convened several meetings at his Chepketemon mansion in Kobujoi to ensure his foothold in the county after triumphing in UDA primaries.  By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By Steve Mkawale and Antony Gitonga | 9 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 10 hours ago By Nikko Tanui and Gilbert Kimutai | 10 hours ago