Sierra Leone President Julius Maado Bio has reaffirmed his country’s commitment to strengthening bilateral ties with Kenya.  President Bio, who was the Chief Guest today during the 59th Madaraka Day celebrations at Uhuru Gardens in Nairobi, noted that while the past had been odious for the two counties, there was still room to mend fences and forge forward.  “We are here to strengthen our ties with Kenya in the areas of international corporation, peace and security, wildlife, tourism, ICT, education, trade and investment,” he said.  “Kenya and Sierra Leone have stood together in war, peace and solidarity, and have pursued a collective agenda that continues to deepen cooperation and bilateral relations.”  “In each of our ways it has been odious maybe not what our forefathers may have imagined. We have faced and mastered our fears and doubts. We have triumphed over adversity and we have worked hard to build just an inclusive peaceful nation on both sides of the great continents,” he said, adding, “but more importantly the fraternal bond between our two nations keeps getting stronger”. On Sunday, President Maado joined President Uhuru Kenyatta to celebrate KDF’s heroism and to pay special recognition to four Kenyans and the sacrifices of thousands of Kenyan soldiers who fought to restore peace and stability in Sierra Leone.  He lauded President Kenyatta’s development record in the areas of infrastructure, healthcare, education, food security, and growing the economy through trade and investments which he said has shown Sierra Leone what is possible.  “One log does not make a bridge. This reminds us that for safety and strength, and for reassurance that we will continue to traverse difficulties together, we must continue to work together and make our bonds even stronger,” he said.  He added: “A single tree does not make a forest. That reminds us that only through interdependence and unity of purpose, can we truly grow stronger, and more formidable nations.”  By Dominic Omondi | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o and Edwin Nyarangi | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 12 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 12 hours ago