After a heated exchange between Kiambu Senator Kimani Wa Matangi and former Governor William Kabogo, the cause of the sibling rivalry has emerged.  This is just a day after chaotic scenes marred a Kenya Kwanza rally held in Kiambu County, where the two Governor hopefuls had a bitter exchange in public.  A letter by Moses Kuria’s Chama Cha Kazi and William Kabogo’s Tujibebe parties to the Kenya Kwanza principals has revealed that the exchange was a result of internal wrangles within the Kenya Kwanza coalition.  The two parties are now complaining of unfair treatment in the Kenya Kwanza coalition as William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) gets preferential treatment.  “The bitter exchange between Senator Wa Matangi and Former Governor Kabogo was precipitated by the hardline UDA position in dealing with the Kenya Kwanza Alliance,”   In the joint letter, the Secretaries-General of the two parties have requested a meeting of the Alliance to address the underlying issues.  They have also accused the UDA party of attempting to cripple the Mount Kenya Region politically.  “To avoid further escalation, we do hereby request for a meeting of the Alliance to deliberate on the unacceptable bullying by the UDA party and clear attempts to disenfranchise and marginalize Mt Kenya Region and castrate the region politically,” the letter read in part.  According to the letter, the two say that Chama Cha Kazi had planned for activation in Thika Constituency where he had invited all aspirants in Kenya Kwanza coalition.  However, the UDA aspirants in Kiambu County were allegedly recalled and a parallel meeting was convened at the official residence of the Deputy President in Karen.  The two parties also allege that there was another meeting later that evening, bringing together all UDA aspirants.  “A meeting was called at Oak Place restaurant by Hon Kimani Ichungwa and all UDA MPs and MCAs aspirants and they were all given clear orders not to associate with Tujibebe or Chama Cha Kazi parties in either way,” the letter stated.  On Wednesday, Deputy President William Ruto's running mate Rigathi Gachagua took the Kenya Kwanza's campaign trail to Kiambu county.  The affiliate parties under the Kenya Kwanza umbrella, with roots in Kiambu, such as  Kabogo's Tujibebe Party, and Kuria’s Chama Cha Kazi among others availed themselves for the rally.  It is here that a standoff ensued between the duo after Wamatangi allegedly refused to hand over a microphone to Kabogo.  Both Wamatangi and Kabogo, under a UDA and Tujibebe party ticket respectively, are seeking to replace incumbent Kiambu Governor James Nyoro in the August polls.    In his address, Wamatangi castigated Kabogo for allegedly attempting to intimidate him into withdrawing his governor bid while urging area residents to only elect UDA candidates into office.  "I'm rallying you to vote me as governor on UDA and I will deliver on the promises that I make. I can also lead the Kiambu people and I won't be intimidated at all," said Wamatangi.  In response to the blatant jibes, Kabogo, who claimed to have predicted that Wamatangi would give him a hard time at the rally, grabbed another microphone and hit back at the senator.  "Kama wewe ni Mwanaume kuja hapa," Kabogo said.  By Jacob Ngetich | 6 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae and Eric Abuga | 6 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 6 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 6 hours ago