ODM MPs met in Mombasa yesterday to discuss how to contain sibling rivalry that threatens to derail Azimio la umoja flag bearer Raila Odinga’s presidential campaigns.  Led by Mombasa ODM governor aspirant and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Sharrif Nassir, the leaders also crafted strategies to stem the DP William Ruto’s wave in the region.  In Mombasa, it emerged the rivalry is not between Wiper and ODM but a political war between entities in Azimio and the Orange party. “ODM wants to own Raila and still demands that other aspirants in the coalition should campaign for him,” said Mr Caleb Ngwena, a political analyst.  In Taita Taveta County, the Azimio rivalry is between Jubilee and Wiper. In Mombasa, the camps of Nassir (ODM) and Mike Mbuvi Sonko (Wiper) have caused tension across the county. Should Sonko get cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to seek the governorship seat, it will cause more rivalry in Azimio.  Yesterday, IEBC challenged the High Court’s jurisdiction to quash orders by chairman Wafula Chebukati barring Sonko from being cleared by filing a preliminary objection before Justice John Mativo. Justice Mativo allowed for the adjournment until Friday to hear and determine the objection. A month ago, Sonko was forced to fire shots in the air after a mob attending an Azimio rally at Mkomani confronted him as he arrived at the meeting attended by Raila. Some supporters were injured as Sonko was forced to flee from an irate mob.  The Azimio rally had been organised by Nassir and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho but only ODM leaders got a chance to address it. Sonko’s convoy was turned away by angry ODM supporters. Yesterday, ODM nominee for deputy Governor Francis Thoya rooted for six-piece voting in favour of ODM.  The Kenya Kwanza Alliance has not been spared the sibling rivalry drama. DP Ruto has witnessed tensions as he addressed meetings attended by rival politicians in Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi counties.  In Kilifi and Kwale, the rivalry is between UDA and the Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi-led Pamoja African Alliance (PAA).  At Vigurungani in Kinango, Ruto only lined up UDA aspirants led by governor candidate Fatuma Achani and Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari amid tensions from supporters of Kenya Kwanza affiliate parties.  “I urge you to vote for the UDA team. I urge you to vote for Achani and Tayari,” Ruto declared as supporters from other Kenya Kwanza parties protested.  The DP left out Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza (Amani National Congress) and Kinango Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) MP aspirant Gonzi Rai who were present. PAA governor candidate Lunz’anzi Chai skipped the meeting following the heightened rivalry.   In Mombasa, former Senator Hassan Omar (UDA) and Deputy Governor William Kingi (PAA) have avoided attending joint meetings following political rivalry. In Kilifi, the rivalry between governor hopeful Aisha Jumwa (UDA) and lawyer George Kithi (PAA) played out before DP Ruto when he campaigned in the area three weeks ago.  By Jacob Ngetich | 2 hours ago By Grace Ng’ang’a | 2 hours ago By Denis Kabaara | 2 hours ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago