President Uhuru Kenyatta has emphasised the need to enhance transport connectivity between Kenya and Barbados to boost the mutually beneficial ties the two countries enjoy.  The president said that the two countries possessed great potential that could be harnessed for the benefit of their citizens if transport hurdles that are an impediment to trade and interpersonal interactions were addressed.  The transport impediments include lack of direct flights to and from the Caribbean nation.  President Kenyatta was speaking yesterday at a meeting with Barbadian President Sandra Mason who paid him a courtesy call at State House, Nairobi.  The Barbadian leader, who is the first president of the new Republic of Barbados, is on her first official visit to Kenya. A former British colony in the Caribbean, Barbados transitioned to a republic on November 30, 2021.  Noting that Kenya is a big agricultural producer while Barbados boasts of being a strong financial hub, Uhuru said increased people-to-people interaction through improved transport connectivity will accelerate economic growth and create jobs for the youth of the two countries.  President Mason appreciated the warm and cordial relations founded on mutual respect and common historical ties that exist between Kenya and Barbados.  The Barbadian president particularly commended President Kenyatta, saying his presidency has been refreshing to the Caribbean region.   “Your presidency has been refreshing to us. You are the first President to engage and embrace us outside the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). We are grateful to you for taking that bold step that has brought us together,” President Mason said.   The two presidents also discussed cooperation in green energy and integration of financial institutions as areas that would strengthen the partnership between the two countries.  Earlier at State House, Nairobi, President Kenyatta separately held talks with former Seychelles President Danny Faure and former Sudan Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok.  Their discussions centred on building the region’s economic resilience and investor confidence through the promotion of intra-Africa trade.  By Stephanie Wangari | 53 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By Too Jared | 8 hours ago