IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati addresses a press conference on the Voter register audit on June 20, 2022, at Bomas of Kenya. [Samson Wire. Standard]  With 45 days to the August 9, 2022, polls, the Independent Election and Commission, IEBC says it has finalised the procurement of 14,000 KIEMS kits to aid in the general elections.  However, IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati says the commission has not procured ballot papers since they are yet to have the final list of the presidential candidates which will be availed by June 30, 2022.  “We have already procured 14,000 KIEMS kits that will be used in the upcoming elections. This is in addition to the existing 44,000 kits that were used in 2017,” he said.  Chebukati also added that they are currently recruiting 300,000 temporary staff who will man the hotly contested general elections. At the same time, IEBC has stressed that it will use alphanumerical search during the polls and that no voter will be denied a chance to exercise his or her democratic right.  On election malpractice, Chebukati says that the commission has 'no teeth to bite' sighting the recent case against Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege over vote-rigging claims.  “We have no teeth to bite regarding politicians involved in election malpractice because of the court ruling regarding the Sabina Chege case. We can only forward complaints to the Director of Public Prosecutions," said Chebukati.  "We cannot summon them, despite the fact that it’s our mandate according to the Constitution. That’s why we appealed. We are waiting for the ruling regarding our appeal next week.”   In the same breath, the commission faulted judge Anthony Mrima for finding that its committee has no powers to summon politicians before they have been formally nominated and ascertained that they will vie as independent candidates.  IEBC says the judge failed to appreciate that it has the mandate to enforce the electoral code of conduct.  By David Njaaga | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 14 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 14 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 17 hours ago