Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga has promised to address insecurity and boost the economy of Isiolo County if he ascends to power.  Addressing rallies at Merti and Garbatulla yesterday, Raila also assured locals that he would address food shortage, water crisis and poor infrastructure.   “We have noted the dry weather the area is experiencing and will ask the government to send relief food here as you wait for the rains,” Raila told residents in Gabartulla.    Local leaders asked the Azimio leader to ensure completion of the Lamu Port Southern Sudan and Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor, saying it would be a game-changer to the economy of the county. “We shall ensure Lapsset is completed during my tenure. We shall build a railway link to Ethiopia from Lamu and an oil pipeline from Turkana. Isiolo’s economy will get a shot in the arm envisaged under Vision 2030 and things will never be the same again,” Raila said.  He said he was one of the architects of Vision 2030 and Lapsset and would be delighted to see them finally come true under his presidency.  The former Prime Minister promised that the Azimio government would jealously guard lives and rangeland resources to unlock the economic potential of the region.  Isiolo Senator Fatuma Adam Dullo, who is defending the seat, urged Raila to protect the region from insecurity that had made lives of locals miserable. Ms Dullo also appealed to the Azimio presidential candidate to address human-wildlife conflict that has led to loss of lives.  Former Nairobi Assembly Majority leader Abdi Ibrahim Hassan Guyo, who is the Isiolo Jubilee Party governor candidate, said more than 10 people were killed during skirmishes with neighbouring communities in Garrisa and Wajir due to cattle rustling and competition for pasture.  Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe blamed Deputy President William Ruto for failures of the Jubilee government, saying Raila had helped to bring stability but remained just a friend of the government.  Cotu Secretary General Francs Atwoli asked Isiolo residents to shun Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza alliance if they want to see positive change.  Raila called on Kenyans to reject what he termed Ruto’s propaganda describing the DP as the cause of Jubilee’s failures.  He promised to ensure construction of a university at Garbatulla which will be the first in Isiolo County and help restore the lost glory of Garbatulla High School that was once a reputed national school.  Leaders who accompanied the Azimio leader included former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Isiolo South MP Abdi Korupu.  By Julius Chepkwony | 4 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 13 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 13 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 23 hours ago