The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has asked the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions to probe the violence at Jacaranda Grounds on Sunday.  This comes hours after two people, among them UDA aspirants for Embakasi East, were injured and one person arrested following the chaos.  In a press release on Monday, June 19, the electoral commission’s chairman Wafula Chebukati condemned the act of violence and called on all political parties and their candidates to conduct peaceful elections.  “The commission urges the ODPP to cause investigation and prosecution of those responsible for acts of violence witnessed at Jacaranda in contravention of the Code,” Chebukati’s release read in part.  “The commission also calls upon all candidates and Political Parties to conduct peaceful campaigns and adhere to their campaign schedules as submitted to the Returning Officers,” Last evening, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) Party has written a complaint letter to IEBC following today’s events, where two factions clashed leaving two people injured.  In the letter seen by The Standard, UDA’s Secretary-General Veronica Maina has cried foul over ‘abuse of national police service by Azimio Coalition’.  “Suffice it to mention, that the Jacaranda grounds were hired by our UDA MP Candidate for Embakasi East Constituency Mr Francis Mureithi, for the sole purpose of hosting a campaign rally on 19th June 2022.” Lamented Veronica.  On Sunday morning, police dispersed pro-Kenya Kwanza Alliance and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino supporters from Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi, Nairobi, following a dispute over which side should hold a rally at the venue.  This is after the two political factions (Kenya Kwanza and Azimio supporters) clashed.  A contingent of anti-riot police was deployed to the grounds in the morning to avert the clash after Kenya Kwanza and Babu Owino claimed to have booked the venue  By PSCU | 3 hours ago By David Njaaga | 5 hours ago By Mike Kihaki | 6 hours ago By Mate Tongola | 8 hours ago