Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential running mate Martha Karua has said Raila Odinga's government will be fair to all including their opponents and nobody should panic.  Speaking at a meeting with Muslim leaders in a Nairobi hotel yesterday night, Karua said of the four presidential candidates, only Raila understands the challenges facing the Muslim community.  She promised that the Azimio government will look into contentious issues in the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) to ensure no part of Kenya or a section of citizens feel marginalised by any amendments to the Constitution.    “When Raila Odinga chose me to be his running mate, I knew he was serious about making Kenya a great country for all since he knows the values that I stand for, what I can agree on and what I cannot compromise on. I am kindly asking for your votes,” said Karua. She pledged that Azimio government will ensure Kenyans get basic needs which are recognised in article 43 of the Constitution.  “Raila and Karua are not perfect individuals, but are tried and tested leaders with a wide range of experience that will enable them serve Kenyans as their President and Deputy President compared to our opponents,” she said.  Sports and Heritage CS Amina Mohammed said Karua is a champion of good governance and has contributed tremendously to social justice, constitutional reforms and in the fight against corruption during her tenure as MP and minister.  "I recall at one point I tried to convince Martha not to leave government in vain. She is one leader who once she makes up her mind to serve the people, she does not change the resolve easily. This is the person we want as our next Deputy President," she said.  National Muslim Leadership Forum (Namlef) Chairman Abdullahi Abdi said when Karua served as Minister of Justice she championed the interests of the Muslim community.  Abdi said Namlef has analysed all presidential candidates and looked at their manifestos and found that the Azimio presidential candidate and his running mate, offered a bright future for Kenyans.  Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims National Chairman Hassan ole Naado also lauded Karua’s  appointment as Azimio presidential running mate as a game changer in national politics.  “Our members are concerned about being profiled and have challenges in getting passports and Identity cards. We hope this will be resolved,” said Naado.  By Wainaina Ndung'u | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 8 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 8 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich | 8 hours ago