President Uhuru Kenyatta has garlanded several Kenyans with national awards in recognition of their services to the nation during in his last Madaraka Day celebration as Head of State.  In the event held at Uhuru Gardens, Nairobi, lawyer Paul Ndung'u, currently serving as the Chairperson of the Saint John's Ambulance was conferred with the Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart in recognition of his very many years of service to the organisation. He also chaired the Ndung'u Land Commission in 2003.  At the same time, former State House Chief of Staff and Head of Presidential Delivery Unit, Nzioka Waita was awarded the Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart. He is currently contesting to be Machakos Governor.    Brigadier Joseph Maina was awarded with the Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear for the crucial role he played in the renovation of the Uhuru Gardens and overseeing building of Ulinzi Sports Complex recently opened by President Kenyatta. Development projects  Brigadier Carolyne Mutesia, the General Manager of the Joint National Mapping Project, was honoured with the Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear for successfully supervising over 10 development projects across various ministries and departments.    Prof David Sang was awarded with Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear for his role in the malaria eradication efforts across the country.  Also recognised was Dr Weston Wakasiaka, a renowned fistula surgeon, who was feted with the Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear for his efforts to ensure women suffering from the condition got treatment.  A director of the Presidential Delivery Unit in the Coast region, Polycarp Onyango, received the Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear for his service at the Kenya Ports Authority.  Others recognised were Alice Nyariki (Order of Grand Warrior), a Senior Deputy Director of Pensions for leading reforms in pension department; Jane Mwangi (Order of the Grand of Warrior) who served in the Competency Based Curriculum Taskforce for her efforts to bring reforms in the Education sector and Major Athman Hussein (Order of Grand Warrior).   By Frankline Sunday | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Daniel Wesangula | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago