Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga has said Kenya is on course towards the third and economic liberation after the August 9 General Election.  He said his government will ensure all Kenyans get food cheaply, affordable medical care and support farmers to make the country food secure. This he said would be the key highlights of his leadership once elected president.  Speaking at Elwak, Takaba and Mandera towns yesterday, Raila said his government was keen on ensuring those who cannot afford basic needs are put under a social protection programme with Sh6,000 monthly stipend.    “Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition has come up with a blue print that intends to put our country on the right course to becoming one of the fastest developing countries in the world. I am sure this will be achieved when you elect me as your next President in August,” he said. Raila said free education from primary school to university level will be actualised under his leadership to ensure no Kenyan child fails to go to school due to poverty.  He said Babacare will ensure all Kenyans get affordable medical care and the issue of patients and dead bodies being detained in hospitals and mortuaries due to pending medical bills will not happen.  His running mate Martha Karua said value addition of products under one county, one product, will ensure each county is able to maximise on what it produces to create jobs and earn locals an income. This, she said, would eradicate poverty across the country.  “Our main goal is to produce locally and minimise importing goods that we can make here. That is why we will revive all our cash crops and minerals and ensure our people generate income,” said Karua.  She said their government will create information technology hubs in every sub county for the youth to work online and do international jobs without necessarily moving away from their villages.  Karua said their administration will actualise the dreams of the founding fathers of the nation whose desire was to eliminate poverty, disease and ignorance.  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said Kenyans were yearning for change and would not accept a leader out to take the country backwards and that was the reason citizens who have never supported Raila in the past, were now behind his presidential bid.  “Raila and  Karua are going to fully implement the Azimio manifesto which is a game change in the running of the country's economic affairs,” said Musyoka.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 7 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 7 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 15 hours ago