A city court will on Monday deliver a ruling on bond terms for six people arrested for allegedly stealing Sh14 million from a house in Langata, Nairobi.  The ruling had been scheduled for Wednesday, but was postponed after Kibera law court Magistrate Elector Riany was reported to be unwell.  The six; Shellomett Kiprono Jerop, Agaziva Brain Kenneth, Jackline Minayo, Patrick Mwangi, Caleb Nagomere and Eunice Akinyi are accused of stealing from Samar Alkindy on April 29, 2022.  Two weeks ago, the six were charged with the offence of stealing the money alongside jewellery, title deed and logbook.  Last week, the magistrate extended a warrant of arrest for Nagomere after he skipped a court mention. Nagomere had earlier secured his release, having paid Sh1 million cash bail. He had asked the court to review the bail from Sh7 million. He is now remanded with the other three male suspects at Industrial Area prison, while the three female suspects are being held at Lang’ata Women’s prison. They have applied to consolidate their bonds, asking that it be reduced from Sh7 million to Sh1 million.  Lawyer Danstan Omari is representing the complainant in the case, while lawyers Mukundi Gitau and Maurice Kinyanjui are for the accused.   Mr Omari had earlier asked court not to release the suspects because Ms Alkindy feared they might harm her, having received several anonymous calls, some of them threats.   The suspects were arrested after being informed that the complainant had lost jewellery.  According to police report, she had also indicated that the stolen money was from generational family savings.  The money was in Kenyan and US currency of Sh4 million and $806,000.  Jerop, who had been Ms Alkindy’s house help, was arrested in Eldoret.  She led officers to a house in Kabarnet, Baringo County where it was  reported by police that Sh372,000 and $20,200 was recovered. Another suspect Minayo was reported to have been arrested in possession of Sh100,000.   By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Beldeen Waliaula | 3 hours ago