Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition has exuded confidence of winning the presidential election in the first round of voting and with a landslide margin.  Speaking during a rally in Kisii yesterday, the coalition’s presidential flagbearer, Raila Odinga, said they have built a strong formation and started a journey to win the support of the entire country.  Promising to tackle corruption, Raila described their journey as one of purpose that will transform the country should they win the August 9 General Election.    “We have a reason, we have a mission and we have the ability to transform the lives of Kenyans. On August 9, we are going to begin the transformation of our country,” he said. The ODM leader, in an unprecedented move, dropped the six-piece voting call for his party candidates and urged voters to elect anyone contesting under the Azimio-One Kenya Coalition banner.  He was accompanied by his running mate Martha Karua, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Governors Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu) and James Ongwae (Kisii) alongside a host of other leaders.  While making reference to the coalition’s blue colour theme, the leaders said they have started a journey to paint the entire country blue, adding that a win for their side was inevitable.  They mentioned Coast, Nairobi, Eastern, Nyanza, Mount Kenya, Western and North Eastern regions as some of the areas where they have locked their support.  “We will win the presidency in the first round. We will not have a rerun and we will ensure that we garner 70 per cent of the vote,” said Kalonzo. He said they have already won the hearts of almost all the regions in the country.  The leaders took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto’s camp and poked holes on their integrity, saying a majority of them do not deserve to lead. Raila focused his attention on the manifesto they recently launched, which he said had the solutions for all the problems that Kenyans face.  He outlined plans to bolster the country’s agricultural, manufacturing, housing and industrial growth.  The ODM chief also vouched for his medical healthcare plan dubbed “Babacare”, which he described as a game-changer that will enable Kenyans to access healthcare with ease.  “Poverty, diseases and ignorance are our greatest enemies and we will deal with them,” said Raila.  Karua said she was confident of Raila’s leadership and that the people have accepted their coalition as the best bet to take the country forward.  She praised Raila’s development credentials, saying he was the brain behind most infrastructure projects across the country.  “We are firmly behind Raila. His goal is to transform the country. We are already seeing the fruits of his efforts when he served as Roads minister and introduced several infrastructure projects,” said Karua.  Kalonzo said he had a whole week to think of the country before he made a decision to support Raila.  Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said Mount Kenya region is now fully behind Raila, while Ongwae said the Abagusii community had come of age politically and will make a statement through the ballot.  By Eric Abuga | 2 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 7 hours ago By Standard Team | 17 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 17 hours ago