Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua yesterday held a series of rallies in Murang’a and Nyeri counties where she promised to fix the economy by sealing corruption loopholes.  Speaking at Kabiru-ini showground in Nyeri, Karua urged Mt Kenya residents to vote in Azimio government since it was the only hope for liberating Kenyans through protected taxes devoid of siphoning through corruption.  “Azimio-led government will be your liberator as a government. Once you vote us in, we will ensure that all taxes collected are used well. As Minister for Justice, I will ensure that those who steal taxes are prosecuted in a free and fair manner,” said Karua.    She said her partnership with presidential candidate Raila Odinga is the safest pair of hands that could transform Kenya. Karua outlined plans to bolster the country’s agricultural, manufacturing, housing, and industrial growth and expressed optimism that Raila’s government will improve all the sectors.  But it is the fight against corruption that she described as a major stumbling block to the country’s success, noting that her union with the ODM leader is a formidable force that will end the vice.  Karua trashed the pronouncement by Deputy President William Ruto that he would allocate billions to youth and women as farfetched, saying without a proper corruption eradication programme, his promises are just wishful thinking.  “Sometimes as politicians, we mention things that are not in line with our integrity. When he says that he will allocate this and that yet he is followed by corruption allegations, is that right or just to Kenyans?” she posed.   Karua said Azimio is the best outfit for the nation, citing the economic turnaround that was witnessed after Kibaki took over power in 2002 through prudent use of government funds.  Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina, who is vying for the governor seat, said with an Odinga-Karua administration, the corruption that has wrecked the nation will be a thing of the past.  During the meeting, Nyeri Senate candidate Wambugu Nyamu, who is vying on a Democratic Party ticket defected to Azimio, saying he is sure that the alliance was best for Kenyans.  “I want to say that Karua is the best person to champion for the interest of the community. That is why I will support Azimio,” said Nyamu.  By Josphat Thiong’o | 2 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 2 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 3 hours ago