Taita Taveta County Assembly leadership has overturned a resolution to extend House business citing a lack of quorum and funds for sitting allowances.  The MCAs through a procedural motion tabled by the Majority Leader Harris Keke unanimously resolved not to adjourn with the rest of the counties and national Parliament.  The MCAs had resolved to extend the second assembly sittings to July 21 until they finalise all the pending House businesses.  They said the pending issues included Public Accounts and Investments committee's findings on the Auditor General’s report on the county government’s financial statements. The House needed to debate and approve or reject it.  But yesterday, Deputy Speaker Chrispus Tondoo adjourned the House and told the MCAs to go back to their respective wards to look for votes as the August polls approach.  The Bomeni Ward representative said the House was faced with quorum hitches hence the need for an adjournment.  “We cannot continue with the House business due to lack of quorum. You now have the opportunity to go back to the electorate and seek re-election instead of wasting time here,” Tondoo told his colleagues.  But the Wusi-Kishamba Ward representative Justine Juma Mwamba said the ground was very hostile to them due to delayed bursaries, stalled projects and pending bills for contractors and suppliers.  He said that failure to address such pending issues will impact negatively on their re-election.  “It will be difficult for us to look for votes as the electorate is hostile since nothing tangible is seen on the ground in terms of development to justify our re-election,” Mwamba said.  “The voters are angry with us and we are feeling the heat. The economy is also down and they are facing food shortages.”  Wundanyi-Mbale Ward representative Stephen Mcharo said the county had not done much in relation to project implementation.  “Throughout the year, very little has been done and we do not have much to tell the voters as we seek re-election,” Mcharo said. “As the legislative arm of the county government, we got a raw deal from the Executive.”  Omar Nguzo, the Challa Ward representative said the Education Fund Board that is charged with the responsibility of disbursing bursaries had not met the residents' expectations.  “The Executive allocated Sh100 million in subsequent financial years for bursaries which have been getting released in bits,” he said. “If we are in office, we will push the Executive to release the pending bursaries immediately to benefit the needy students.”  The MCAs said they had decided to extend the House business to clear all the pending issues.  By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 9 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 2 days ago By Patrick Beja | 2 days ago