Chama Cha Kazi leader Moses Kuria and his Tujibebe Wakenya counterpart William Kabogo yesterday skipped campaign rallies in Kiambu County attended by Kenya Kwanza coalition running mate Rigathi Gachagua.  During the rallies in Githunguri, Gatundu South and Gatundu North, Mr Gachague urged residents to only vote for United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidates in the August elections - a blatant push for the so-called ‘six-piece suit’.  In Githunguri, Mr Gachagua and Woman Rep Gathoni Wamuchomba were heckled by youth said to be affiliated with one of the candidates.  During the event, Gachagua told off Githunguri MP Kago wa Lydia, asking him to organise his own rally and invite Azimio-One Kenya flagbearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua.  Yesterday, Kuria said they would write a protest letter to Kenya Kwanza on the matter. Political analysts now say the supremacy battles between Kenya Kwanza leading lights in Kiambu may cost the coalition the highly coveted governor’s seat.  According to Prof Emmanuel Kisiangani, both the Kenya Kwanza and Azimio-One Kenya political formations have teething problems when it comes to grassroots politics.  “Both parties seemed to have agreed on the presidential candidate because it is very easy for the top seat. Unfortunately, this might cost the parties big time if no solution is offered on time,” he said.  Prof Kisiangani said the party leaders need to urgently meet, cut deals and agree to support one powerful aspirant.  The sibling rivalry that played out Wednesday between Senator Kimani Wamatangi and Kabogo during Kenya Kwanza’s tour of Kiambu revealed the fierce infighting that is wracking the coalition.  The wrangles have now roped in Kuria who is also seeking to unseat incumbent Kiambu Governor James Nyoro (Jubilee) in the August polls.  The Chama Cha Kazi leader claimed the altercation between Kabogo and Wamatangi was a wider scheme by UDA to silence him and the Jibebe Wakenya party boss.  “We feel unwanted in the campaign rallies. I chose to boycott the rally. They don’t want us to campaign for ourselves and our candidates,” he said on the phone.  The war of words between Kabogo, Kuria and Wamatangi is also likely to impact Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential campaigns in Kiambu, a region he has always counted as one of his strongholds.  By Ndung’u Gachane | 6 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich | 12 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae and Eric Abuga | 20 hours ago