One person is feared dead and scores others injured after a motorist crashed into the toll station at Mlolongo Exit.  The accident (above) happened on Saturday night at 2216 hours, workers at the Nairobi Expressway say.  According to the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA), the motorist was speeding as he approached the exit.  “The motorist crashed into the Toll Plaza and ran over other vehicles being cleared to exit. Consequently, the vehicle knocked one toll booth and injured one toll attendant besides the other motorists,” KeNHA has said on its social media platform. A statement by KeNHA said the injured were rushed to the hospital for medical attention and are responding to treatment.  At the same time, the affected exit pointhas been closed for repairs.  “The Nairobi Expressway is committed to providing a safe and reliable toll road service and would wish to assure the public that they are putting measures in place to avert such unfortunate incidents from occurring. Motorists are advised to avoid overspeeding (sic) and be cautious while on the road,” the highways authority has warned road users.  On May 7, the first road accident on the newly constructed expressway was reported.  It involved a car which hit the fence demarcating the new road and Mombasa Road and landed on the highway. Before opening the road for public trial, authorities had released reports of stiff penalties for motorists who damaged property along the expressway.  The charges ranged from Sh100,000 and went as high as Sh8 million.   According to the document, damaging the cantilever variable information board would cost a motorist Sh8.7 million while damaging the microwave vehicle detector would cost Sh1.2 million.   "Road property polluted by gasoline, diesel, engine oil or other types of oil; industrial wastewater, oil, alkali, and other chemical substances will cost Ksh6,939 per square meter," read part of the document.  The document has not been gazetted.  The road (Nairobi Expressway) is yet to be officially commissioned by President Uhuru Kenya.   By Brian Kisanji | 1 hour ago By Stephen Rutto | 2 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 6 hours ago By Sharon Owino | 9 hours ago