On a normal day, Manchester Close in Ongata Rongai's Kandisi area is a quiet neighbourhood, save for chirping birds and cock crows that pierce the air, breaking the silence.  Here almost all residents live in gated homes, and those who have lived here for long have kei-apple fences and permanent perimeter walls.  While daytime paints a picture of peaceful neighbourhood, it is here that a woman was accosted at a gunpoint by six armed robbers on Sunday morning.    According to CCTV footage that has gone viral, the woman arrived home around 2am and just as she drove into the compound the gang accosted her. After a brief struggle, the robbers, armed with different weapons among them AK47 rifles, used a sword to break into the driver's side of the Mercedes E-250 before the victim surrendered.  It is then that the thugs then frog marched her to the house where they ransacked it as they brandished their guns.  The family is still shaken from the ordeal.   "The victim is still in shock from what happened. We understand that the robbers had attacked a nearby home before coming they came to our house," said a family member who declined to be named.   "They ransacked the house for about 20 minutes before they left," he added. The robbers fled with some gadgets and an unknown amount of cash.  The family's palatial home shares a compound with a house of similar design separated by an electric fence intertwined with flowers.  On Tuesday afternoon, investigators spent more than three hours combing through the home for more leads.  They also recorded statements from the family about the incident.  This comes a day after interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and Inspector General of police Hillary Mutyambai visited the area and promised that the culprits will be brought to book.  Further, the CS promised with immediate effect the construction of Kandisi Police post with possible upgrade to a police station.  He also promised to bring in a special team who will cover the entire area and work hand in hand with the local police for effective results.  The security team ordered that bars and wines and spirits joints to be controlled in the area.  Residents who spoke to The Standard said not too long ago another incident was reported in the area using similar style to gain access to the home.  Alice Njoki, a resident of Kandisi for seven years, told The Standard that for about one month now similar cases have been reported.   Njoki said the area hosts some prominent politicians and other senior government officials who own homes in the quiet area of Kajiado County.  "In the past one weeks we have heard about five cases in the area, in once cases they stole a motor vehicle and was recovered at Ole kasasi area," she narrated   "I have lived here for about seven years and such cases were unheard off, for now we have been forced to employ security guards to watch over our properties," added Njoki  Authorities say they are investigating a case where some people sent the cash to a money transfer agent Mwiki.  By Brian Okoth | 49 minutes ago By Frankline Sunday | 1 hour ago By Graham Kajilwa | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 hours ago