Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga has pledged to enhance service delivery and prudent use of resources if elected the next governor.  She said the county had lagged behind in development because of cartels who perpetrate corruption. Ms Wanga warned that financial theft hampers services to the people.  The ODM party governor candidate promised an elaborate plan to eradicate cartels within the county government. “I will be keen on matters of governance and corruption which is a serious impediment to service delivery,” she said yesterday.    She also promised that all health facilities in the county would be equipped with drugs and personnel to enhance provision of services. Wanga expressed concerns over the deteriorating health sector in the county. “Health is going to be a priority in my administration because it is the foundation of human well-being. I will improve our health facilities to the required standards,” Wanga said.  Addressing county residents in Homa Bay town, Wanga said she will boost agriculture and Homa Bay food secure.  This will include provision of seeds and fertilisers at subsidised prices to improve the output of farmers.  Her administration will also support fishing, fish farming and livestock rearing. “Agriculture is the source of our food and money. I will give it priority it deserves,” she said.  She promised a new county cabinet to aid rapid development. Homa Bay County’s health sector is currently bedeviled by various challenges ranging from lack of drugs in health facilities, inadequate facilities, and persistent health workers’ strikes due to delayed salaries.  Wanga is among the three candidates cleared by the IEBC to run for the governor's seat in the August 9 elections.  She was cleared alongside her running mate Oyugi Magwanga. Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, who is running as an independent candidate and Charles Mark Rabudi of UDA were also cleared to run for the top county seat.  By Olivia Odhiambo | 4 hours ago By James Omoro | 11 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Isaiah Gwengi | 19 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich | 1 day ago