An explosion of colour lit up an otherwise dull sky as a group of people fished out their mobile phones to capture the moment.  The venue was Uhuru Gardens National Monument and Museum along Nairobi’s Lang’ata Road, where a seven-minute fireworks display momentarily disrupted the animated chatter among those gathered on the grounds.  The fireworks display at the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior site, marked the culmination of a three hour event graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta and visiting Sierra Leone President Julius Maada Bio, opening the facility to the public on Tuesday.  The journey to construction of the historical facility and assembling of artifacts started 21 months ago following a presidential directive to a multi agency committee led by Kenya Defence Forces.  The wide white walls to the main entrance bear inscriptions of the 58-year-old facility, which the President at a speech during yesterday’s Madaraka Day celebrations, described as having been turned into a ‘’den of thieves’’. That the grounds no longer bear such a description is evident right from the entrance where a feature with coloured bulbs standing in the water welcomes one to the 68 acre memorial park. The park not only carries the country’s rich history but also bears testimony to the highs and lows that have defined post-independence Kenya.  In the President’s words on Tuesday, “it is a place that will narrate every significant event in Kenya’s history through the years.” The water feature symbolises the extension of Kenya boundaries. The ground that had in recent years fallen into ruin, now hosts a state-of-the-art museum which will archive Kenya’s history since 1800. The facility’s director said 12,300 artifacts had been gathered across the county with the help of the National Museums of Kenya. Each room, space, artifact, equipment or writing installed at the facility drives to a certain aspect of Kenya’s history.  Outside the Hall of Witness, two lion sculptures facing opposite directions were unveiled with the National Anthem scripted in Kiswahili below on the left sculpture and the English version on the right sculpture. The lions symbolise strength, courage and integrity.  On the lower side of the giant lion sculptures are statues of Mekatilili wa Menza, a Kenyan woman from Kilifi who was chosen as the icon to venerate the collective struggle of women in the fight for independence.  The artistic installation embodies Menza’s spirit and serves as a tribute to her commitment in the fight for freedom and resisting the British rule. The facility will host 20 different galleries. Only four; the Tunnel of Martyrs, People’s of Kenya, Birth of Kenya and Military Heritage, were unveiled during the official commissioning. The memorial Tunnel of Martyrs will engrave names of Kenyans who lost their lives during the country’s darkest moments.  Impromptu visits  Uhuru Gardens has been sentimental to the President, who did the ground breaking on August 4, 2020 and instructed the KDF to deliver the project within 21 months.  Since the construction kicked off, he has been making impromptu visits to inspect the progress.  “It is not only a place for remembrance, reflection and healing but also the arena where our past, present and also our future shall converge,” said the President. “We are reminded that history gives valuable lessons which speak to the present. A history not told by others about us but a history gathered by Kenyans for Kenyans,” he added.  It is at Uhuru Gardens where the Union Jack (British flag) was lowered and Kenya’s flag first hoisted and national anthem recited for the first time. The location was declared a monument in 1997. The facility’s logo captures the symbolic Mugumo tree which was planted by the first president on the spot where the national flag was hoisted, and a shield which signifies unity and defence for freedom.  Among the historical materials preserved include bones, beadwork, cultural garments, artifacts from across the country, display of military history and paraphernalia, including their uniforms, ranks badges and equipment, farming tools and music equipment.  The skeleton of the 1.5-million-year-old fossil “Turkana Boy” discovered by conservationist and paleontologist Richard Leakey in Turkana is also part of the historical features installed.  Kenya’s first locomotive train is also part of the features installed. In between the tour through different galleries, the delegation was treated to video clips explaining the relevance of the artifacts, equipment in relation to Kenya’s history. The museum’s Hall of Innovation will celebrate the innovative ideas produced by Kenyans. Uhuru  also lit the Eternal Flame at the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior site which nears the Hall of remembrance in honour of Kenyans who heroically served the country.  “The Tomb of Unknown Warrior represents Kenyans known and unknown, who have served and continue to serve the country and an eternal memory of those who have the ultimate price for our sacrifice,” Uhuru said.  State honours  The country’s first president Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s Ishaweri House is also part of the historical features installed. Former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta was among the guests who toured the house during the commissioning.  Also contained in the monument and museum is a granite with names of all deceased Kenyans who have been bestowed State honours or awards since Madaraka Day of 1967.  Not all galleries will speak to the nation’s pains. There will also be those highlighting the achievement of Kenya’s heroes, sportspeople, academicians and innovators. Portraits of Kenya heroes such as former Jomo Kenyatta, Dedan Kimathi environmentalist and Nobel laureate Wangari Mathai will be displayed in various sections of the museum. Other facilities that will be incorporated include a shopping complex, business centre, a hotel and convention centre. Chief of Defence Forces General Robert Kibochi said the project was completed within the stipulated period noting that hosting Jamhuri Day in December 2021 was one of the key milestones achieved through the project.  “The team of architects, engineers, soldiers and other technical personnel have worked tirelessly to deliver this project and I thank the teams for the synergy that they have shown throughout the 21 months we have been here. We would not have achieved this without your intervention through the construction stages,” said Kibochi.  By Dominic Omondi | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o and Edwin Nyarangi | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 12 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 12 hours ago