Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate Rigathi Gachagua has said the Kenya Kwanza coalition will restore dignity in the civil service if they win the August presidential election.  Speaking when he and other Kenya Kwanza coalition leaders from Mount Kenya campaigned in Meru yesterday, Mr Gachagua said the coalition will ensure civil servants are supported at work, including better salaries and promotions.   Mr Gachagua was with Meru Senator Mithika Linturi who is running for governor and MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri) and Charles Njagua (Starehe).    Mr Gachagua and others addressed residents in a few trading centres starting with Timau before proceeding to Imenti. He said DP Ruto will improve perks for the police and prison departments. “Since (President) Mwai Kibaki retired the salaries and allowances for police officers have not been improved. Once Dr Ruto takes over the salaries and allowances will be reviewed.”  He said further, that officers with degrees will be remunerated according to their academic qualifications. Mr Gachagua said the plan for better terms for the police, chiefs, and assistant county commissioners was geared toward restoring the dignity in the civil service, adding that there was more in store for farmers and youths.  He said miraa farmers have suffered because of a lack of reliable market, saying supporting farmers is a key part of DP Ruto’s agenda.  “Farmers are at the centre of our bottom-up economic model,” Mr Gachagua said. He added that the government will lower fertiliser and farm input. He said: “It is the government’s responsibility to look for markets for agricultural products. Our ambassadors in China and other countries will be charged with marketing Kenyan products.”  He said miraa farmers in Igembe and Tigania areas have lost their income due to a lack of markets. “We must have good relations with Somalia and other neighbours so that our miraa can access the markets.”   By Paul Ogemba | 4 hours ago By Robert Amalemba Waswani | 4 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 4 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and David Njaaga | 15 hours ago