Former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka  has intensified Azimio la Umoja’s vote-hunt in Ukambani where he challenged locals to vote six-piece in favour of Wiper candidates.  Speaking during a stopover at Kathonzweni (Makueni) and in Kitaingo, Kilome Constituency,  on Sunday, Kalonzo popularized Raila Odinga’s presidential bid saying the Azimio flagbearer was the best bet for the region.  “We want to make sure fees for our children is catered to from primary school to the university level. We also understand the problems of Ukambani well; we are a leading agricultural producer, and that will be taken care of,” said Musyoka.    Kalonzo went on to revisit his shelved presidential bid accusing three Ukambani governors, Dr Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Prof Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui), of allegedly curtailing his race to State House. “I don’t have any problem with anybody although they fought and blocked my bid. I have forgiven them for the hurdles they placed on my path. Hence why I have decided, for the third time in a row, to say ‘Raila Tosha’,” said Musyoka.  Kalonzo said Governor Kibwana’s move to drop out of the presidential race to vie for a senatorial seat was a total contradiction.  The Wiper leader urged the governor to, instead, quit in favour of Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo, who is eyeing the senate seat alongside Narc Kenya’s Patrick Mbau.  “Why is Governor Kivutha Kibwana confusing other candidates in the senate race? The last time I checked he was to vie for the presidency,” said Musyoka.  According to Maanzo, Kibwana is aiding DP William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidates while campaigning for Azimio.  “Kibwana is in Azimio in the daytime, and at night he is with Ruto, helping his candidates to campaigns using public resources. He was a governor who failed to honour summons at the Senate,” said Maanzo.  Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, who also accompanied Kalonzo during the tour, said the Mt Kenya region, among other counties which were initially seen as UDA strongholds, was slowly shifting into Odinga’s block.  Kilonzo Jnr was presented with a direct nomination ticket by Wiper to contest for the Makueni county governor seat.  By Jacinta Mutura | 7 hours ago By James Omoro | 11 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 11 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 11 hours ago