We need clergy in the mold of Muge, Okullu to influence choice of leaders  People have high expectations of the church. These expectations are intensified by proclamations by pastors that the drama in scripture will unfold literally in contemporary life. People then wait for the parting of lakes to make passageways. We look out for armies that win battles without firing a single bullet. They wait for angelic visitations that announce upcoming new heroes and heroines. We wait for the stopping of the sun to add one more hour to our day.  People yearn for a zealous divine fire to purge oppressive evils. Pulpits overflow with such promises of replication of biblical drama. With all honesty, people often go home underwhelmed.  Could it be that God works in new ways? Could it be that the expectation of replication fixes our eyes a direction where God has since escalated? Truth is that times have changed. Contexts have shifted. Knowledge has burgeoned. What qualifies for a miracle has shifted too! Bible times are not frozen in history.  Bible truths are always contemporary. Each generation accumulates its own miracle narratives attributed to God but will certainly not be a duplicate of those recorded in the scriptures.       A biblical overview confirms that God’s power is hardly abstract. It is always connected to the needs of the people with freedom as a generic outcome. That God’s power exists in the midst of government systems implies that human systems even at their best will always have gaps that only the Creator can fix. That God’s power is people focused calls for pastors to plant their activity where people are.  Need zones are the miracle zones.  Pastors unfamiliar with oppressions of the people are likely to be poor conductors of divine power. Kenya’s church has a chance every five years to effect the miracle of a loving, people-centred government. The galloping multiplication of deceptive leaders and the pain they cause to the citizens would do with an Elijah-like “fire” that immobilises all looters. That increased laws do not stop them and strategic institutions do not scare them, if it takes a miracle to snatch the country from these heartless captors, so be it!  Strategic window  This government change-over season is a strategic window for the church to utilise its access to sacred power. But why is the church stranded at a time when it should come out strongest? Why are voices scattered when people expect a roar? Why only sparks when we expect a fire? One of the reasons for the church’s shallow and unorganised response is that on the matter of church and state, denominations and their leaders read from strikingly different scripts:  The hired hand: This pastor has already been “seen.” The price is named and the cheque banked. They are officially owned. Their worship is transferred to their bidder.  A case was witnessed recently where a pastor spoke so zealously that throughout their talk they only quoted their preferred presidential candidate – not scripture! Another one was caught on tape asking for a big car from their “boss” to traverse the county converting people not into salvation but into election votes.  Donned in party colours, they are men at work!  Such are payroll prophets.  The entrepreneur: This pastor’s primary care is the survival of their church (read business). They preach peace in the name of God but behind the scenes it is about their cares. Their self-founded church secures their status and they cannot imagine life without it. Theirs is a strategy of survival. They run huge fund drives in the season preceding elections in the name of projects while in actual fact, they are building financial security to carry them through possible turbulence. A peaceful election later, they emerge praising God in the open but as a backdrop is a sigh of relief that congregants are not meant to hear. They disguisedly “eat the sheep.”  The mystic  The mystic: This one sees everything in spiritual terms. Their faith has no earthly alphabet. They paint the world in colours of angels and demons. The response to matters is “These things are spiritual.”  The answer is always prayer, fasting and reading the Bible. In their language, it is always about remaining “In the word.”  They believe there is no need to vote because God has already chosen the leader. They will schedule an intercessory meeting on elections day because “Calling on God does more than casting a vote.” They are literally “not of this world.”  The sharp talker: This pastor is active in political conversations and is a great debater. But they stop at description and give no prescription. Where there are prescriptions, they exclude themselves from execution. Some theologians give great talks but when asked, “What are you practically doing about the things you have talked about?’ they get incoherent. They have no capacity to give legs and hands to their ideologies. Their “inventions” remain in the laboratory with no trials kwa ground. Their talk is seedless - “words with no demonstration of power.”  The church-cuffed:  These are advanced church thinkers and doers who have won recognition from their superiors, communities and even authorities. But their critique is whispered. Even when they disagree with their denominations, they choose diplomatic paths. They shelve their apostolic courage. Fear for their jobs limits their actions. Between risking their livelihood and expressing opposition, livelihood wins.  Every time they want to speak out they hear the voices of their children crying in the background and withdraw.   They are church-cuffed. They have their hands on the plough and not only look back but actually go back.  Face of the State  The endeared critic:  This pastor is known as a voice for the people.  But they speak boldly without trashing the State. They have faith that the State can reform for the better. This pastor suffers rounds of suspicion at the beginning but after sometime, State assessors realise that theirs is a friendly fire. They are invited to State events and increasingly become the clergy face of the State. They are a prophet Nathan type: truth carriers with a friendly access to power, but are not impressed by its trappings.    The lone-ranger: The question is often raised:  “Where are the Muges, the Nzekis, the Okullus, the Njoyas of our time?”  If the likes of the cited existed today the question would not arise, why? They would be known! Unlike the endeared critics, lone rangers are too vocal for comfort. The government hunts them down. Through distress they reveal metal that will not bend. Their boiling points are too high for the furnaces of their persecutors. Their callings transcend their denominations. Denominations only honour them posthumously. Fearful of implications, denominations issue press statements distancing themselves from expressions and acts of such prophets further affirming their lone-ranger status.  But these prophets do not seek human honour - God’s approval is their bread. Not all generations are blessed to have them. Even when admired, lone rangers can only inspire but cannot be duplicated. At God’s own time they appear, fiery ambassadors of God and fierce advocates of the people. They cannot be hired and are neither impressed nor intimidated by power.  Their message is like fire shut up in their bones - they must intervene! They are resolute - if they live they live, if they perish they perish.  By Nzau Musau | 5 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago By George Maringa | 6 hours ago By George Maringa | 9 hours ago