Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka at Kathwana, Tharaka Nithi, March 14, 2022. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Gideon Moi took the Azimio la Umoja political campaigns to Tharaka Nithi County yesterday where they welcomed the county’s deputy governor into the Azimio train.  The two leaders were accompanied by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Tiaty MP William Kamket, Kitui Woman Rep Irene Kasalu and other political leaders. They met residents in three constituencies in the county.  Mr Musyoka endorsed Tharaka Nithi Deputy Governor Francis Kagwima for the county job on a Wiper party ticket.   Mr Kagwima has parted ways with Governor Muthomi Njuki who is aligned to the Kenya Kwanza formation of Deputy President William Ruto.  Mr Musyoka told voters to elect Raila as the next president of Kenya.  He said he, Gideon and others had decided to shelve their political ambitions so that they could be part of the next government under Mr Odinga.  “I want Tharaka (Nithi) and Ukambani to be part of the next government. I will work with Kagwima to bring Tharaka and Ukambani together, because we are one,” said Mr Musyoka.  “We said we shelve our personal interests to rescue the country. For the third time, I will support him (Raila) for the country to achieve peace, and Tharaka and Ukambani are part of Kenya. With Kalonzo in, Tharaka and Ukambani are in,” he stated.  He said that by virtue of family ties and friendships forged over the years in Tharaka Nithi, he understands their challenges which include lack of water, title deeds, cereals depot and infrastructure.  He said he and Gideon would work to ensure residents get title deeds, one of the major issues which have fanned conflicts in the region.  He said he and Mr Wambua would reach out to Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki who has joined Deputy President William Ruto in UDA.  One Kenya Alliance principal and KANU chairman Gideon Moi in Tharaka Nithi County, March 14, 2022. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  He said they want Kindiki in Azimio.  Gideon pleaded with residents to vote wisely in the August 9 elections, saying they will be voting to curb corruption and impunity to ensure Kenya gets good leadership.  “I am here to plead with you to vote wisely in August. Your votes will help in making families and Kenya better. This vote will differentiate those who will be in opposition and impunity, and those fighting for citizens’ interests and keen to eradicate corruption and support education for our children,” he said.  The senator added: “In August you will decide if your life will change or remain the same. Let us vote to improve livelihoods.”  He appealed to voters not to allow themselves to be enticed by bribes to vote, but vote for people who will help improve their lives.  Speaking at Kathwana, the county headquarters after earlier visits to Kibung’a in Tharaka South Sub-county and Igwanjau in Maara Sub-county, the two said that the joining of Azimio by several leaders was a clear win for Raila.  Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Agriculture CS Peter Munya have shown they are confident of a win for Azimio. “All Kenyans are in because they want peace, unity and development. They do not want corruption. You (Tharaka Nithi) should not be out of government,” said the senator.  He said like Baringo, Tharaka Nithi was faced with a harsh climate hence the need to elect a government that was committed to advancing the interests of citizens.  Mr Musyoka said he will agitate for resources to develop Kathwana.  Mr Wambua also appealed to the youth not to be misused by politicians.    By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 5 hours ago By Eric Abuga and Jackline Inyanji | 5 hours ago