Deputy President William Ruto said there were plans to impose a presidential candidate on Kenyans [Courtesy DP Ruto]  Deputy President William Ruto claims there are plans to impose a presidential candidate on Kenyans in the August 9 General Election.  Speaking during his United States tour on Tuesday, March 1, the deputy president said a few people want to control presidential power, hence their push to impose a presidential candidate.  In his words, the DP said the people seeking to consolidate their interests under a certain presidential candidate have resorted to “manipulating decisions of people at different levels”.  Ruto spoke to the founding director of Karson Institute for Race, Peace and Social Justice, Wise Whitehead at the Loyola University. Asked to compare Kenya’s democracy to that of the United States, which is liberal and mature, Ruto said: “The only concern Kenyans have is the intrusion by agencies that try to manipulate decisions of people at different levels. The good thing is that the People of Kenya have resisted any attempts at subverting their will.”  The deputy president cited blackmail and intimidation as methods used by the State to muzzle dissenting voices.  Dr Ruto said he would fight against the imposition of certain candidates on Kenyans.  “I am very confident that the People of Kenya will prevail [in their quest to elect a new leader in August 9, 2022 presidential election],” he said.  Ruto said should he win the presidential election in August 9, he will prioritise Kenyans’ access to jobs, medical care and education.  The deputy is on the record accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta and his allies of attempting to extend their political and economic influence beyond the Jubilee administration’s 2022 limit. He claims the Head of State is backing Raila Odinga’s presidential bid with his (Uhuru’s) interest in mind.  Ruto is on a one-week tour of the US. He’s been accompanied by Amani National Congress (ANC) Party leader Musalia Mudavadi and governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), Josphat Nanok (Turkana) and Salim Mvurya (Kwale).  The DP will end his US tour on Saturday, March 5, and, thereafter, visit the United Kingdom until Tuesday, March 8.  In the UK, he is expected to meet senior UK officials, visit the National Counter-Terrorism Centre and address the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Royal Institute of International Affairs, also known as Chatham House.  By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 hour ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 hour ago