Zachariah Nyaora escaped from the police through a sewer duct. [Source: DCI Twitter]  Detectives investigating an incident where rowdy Boda Boda riders were caught on camera harassing a female motorist have identified the main suspect.  According to the DCI detectives, Zachariah Nyaora Obadia was the mastermind of the sexual harassment incident that has angered Kenyans.  “This is after undercover agents drawn from the elite Crime Research & Intelligence Bureau (CRIB) and DCI Nairobi Regional Headquarters, narrowed down on the suspect identified as Zachariah Nyaora Obadia,” DCI said.  In a series of tweets on Tuesday, March 8 evening, the DCI said that they were able to place the suspect at the scene with the help of cybercrime experts. In efforts to try and arrest the suspect who is still at large, the crime detectives say they went to search for the suspect at Mukuru Kaiyaba slums this afternoon.  However, their efforts were futile after Nyaore reportedly escaped through a sewer duct.  “However, the suspect who is aware of the ongoing crackdown on errant Boda Boda riders escaped our dragnet by a whisker, via a sewer duct in the densely populated settlement,” DCI added.  The sleuths have also confirmed that the suspect’s wife and close relatives have positively identified Nyaore sexually assaulting the unidentified woman in the said video.    Kenyans on social media took to various platforms to express their anger after a video of a young woman being harassed by a crowd of Boda Boda riders went viral.  16 suspects were arrested and five motorcycles were impounded in connection with the attack on the motorist.  "Operations continue as we appeal for more information from the public," police say.  "I am shocked and disgusted by a viral video clip of a female motorist being molested by suspected Boda Boda riders along Wangari Maathai /Forest Road. We must protect our roads from such vile and reprehensible acts of aggression,” Interior CS Fred Matiang’I said.  Barely 24 hours later, President Uhuru Kenyatta reacted to the viral video.  The Head of State, appearing upset, said: “I must, at this stage, refer to what was referred to here, because, without a doubt that (the now-viral Boda Boda harassment video) was a very disheartening thing to see, and it is only one of the others that have occurred across this country, we must be honest.  “And yesterday (Monday, March 7), I did give instructions, and I have ordered a crackdown on all Boda Boda operators starting here in Nairobi and moving across the country,” Kenyatta said amid applause from the attendees.  In the one-minute video, a crowd of Boda Boda riders are seen following the silver car shouting ‘Come Out’.  In the disturbing video, the unidentified woman is screaming and struggling with the rowdy young men attempting to yank her out of the car. The shirt dress she is donning is torn exposing her inner-wear.  Sources indicate that the young woman, driving a silver saloon car, was allegedly involved in an accident with one of the Boda Boda riders on Wangari Maathai Road (former Forest Road) prompting the outrage.  By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago By Kamore Maina and Brian Okoth | 3 hours ago By Mbugua Ng’ang’a | 3 hours ago