Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni (in suit) chat with Mandera Governor Ali Roba at Jubilee Headquarters on March 4, 2022, when Jubilee Party agreed on a cooperation agreement with UDM Party. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has extended the deadline for registration of new party members to March 11.  The party had earlier set March 4 as the deadline, but the exercise will now continue until Friday next week.  This was announced by new secretary-general Jeremiah Kioni shortly after meeting with United Democratic Movement (UDM) party members at Jubilee offices in Nairobi.   Jubilee is racing against time to meet the timelines set by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the Registrar of Political Parties. It said it had pushed the dates to allow many people who have expressed interest in joining the party to enlist.  “Jubilee held its National Executive Council meeting on Thursday where we agreed to extend the registration deadline for political aspirants and those interested in joining us,” said Kioni.  IEBC has set April 22 as the deadline for parties to conduct their primaries.  At the same time, Jubilee and UDM have begun formal engagements expected to culminate in the signing of a cooperation agreement ahead of the polls.  Kioni and UDM party leader Ali Roba announced an agreement for their parties to work together.  "We want to thank UDM leaders for choosing to work with us. We are now on the onset of formal negotiations. Welcome to the winning team," said Kioni.  Mr Ali, the Mandera governor, took over UDM late last year. He said the deal aims at backing ODM's Raila Odinga for the presidency.  "The agreement between UDM and Jubilee is to ensure Raila becomes president. All that's left is a formal signature," said Roba.  Plans are now under way for a formal signing ceremony where Jubilee party leader, President Kenyatta, is expected.  UDM is the latest party to enter into an agreement with Jubilee. Last Friday, Jubilee signed cooperation agreements with over 10 parties, which tasked it with the role of negotiating on their behalf in the Azimio la Umoja Movement.   By Brian Otieno and Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By Omelo Juliet and Robert Amalemba | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 11 hours ago