Mzee Jackson Kibor at his 1543 acre farm at Kabenes in Uasin Gishu County in March 2017 [Kevin Tunoi, Standard]  Political leaders, celebrities and ordinary Kenyans took to social media to honour Jackson Kibor, a man they termed a hero, a successful farmer and a role model.  Kibor, 88, died on Wednesday at St Luke’s Hospital in Eldoret after a long illness. The family said he had been on medicated oxygen since October 2020 when he contracted Covid-19.  Deputy President Dr William Ruto was among the politicians that sent Kibor’s family their condolences. “Our love and prayers to the family and friends of Mzee Jackson Kibor at this time of grief. Mzee was firm, industrious and vocal on issues he believed in. Rest in peace Mzee Kibor,” stated Dr Ruto on Twitter.  Baringo Senator and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi also sent the family a condolence message, saying Kibor was a champion of the boy child. “I convey my condolences to the family and friends of the late Mzee Jackson Kibor,” Mr Moi said on Twitter. He added: “As a champion of the boy child in the society, he will be fondly remembered for his role as the founding ‘Chairman’ of the mythical ‘Men’s Conference’.”  Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said Kibor was a firm leader who believed in hard work and self-discipline. He wished the family strength.    Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said the tycoon would be remembered for his many attributes and contributions to society. “Mzee Kibor will be greatly remembered as a hardworking, visionary and vocal politician and businessman. He would speak his mind without fear or favour. I take this time to pass my sincere condolences to the family over the untimely loss of my friend. Rest in eternal peace, chairman,” wrote Sudi on Facebook.  Soy Constituency MP Mr Caleb Kositany condoled with the family at their home, and said his relatives in the diaspora would fly home before any burial plans are made.  “The family is waiting for members, including Kibor’s children and grandchildren, from the United States and Australia. We will be waiting for a way forward and will support the family in according our friend a good send-off,” said Mr Kositany.  Borabu MP Mr Ben Momanyi said Kibor was a mentor to young people, terming his death a big blow to the business community. “Mzee Kibor was a hard-working businessman and pioneer entrepreneur in Eldoret. His meticulous business skills guided millions of Kenyans who depend on agriculture for livelihood. May his soul rest in peace,” said Mr Momanyi.  Kimilili MP Mr Didmus Barasa said Kibor always showed that with hard work and resilience, every dream was valid. “We remain inspired by his lifelong example and push for a better society. Rest in eternal peace Bwana Chairman. May your family find peace and comfort,” said Mr Barasa.  Several other Kenyans flocked social media platforms to recount Kibor’s life. Many said they would remember him as an advocate of the rights of the boy child.        By Lynn Kolongei | 5 minutes ago By Standard Team | 6 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago