The long-awaited signing of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) coalition agreement has been thrown into disarray after NARC-Kenya pulled out in the last minute.  The flower party that is led by former Justice Minister Martha Karua is seeking more time to study the draft proposal that has been formulated by the coalition technical committee.  The coalition brings together principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Senator Gideon Moi (Kanu), Karua (NARC) and Cyrus Jirongo (UDP).  The move comes barely hours after Kalonzo said that he was ready to work with the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga but on new conditions.  The decision to postpone the signing of the coalition agreement was arrived at by the party National Executive Council (NEC) after a two-day meeting in Naivasha. Addressing the press, the party secretary-general Michael Orwa said that they needed more time to go through the coalition draft.  He said that they received the draft 36 hours ago adding that their legal team was going through the draft before making the next step.  “We have received the draft proposal from the technical committee and our legal team needs seven more days to go through it and identify the grey areas,” he said.  Flanked by NEC members, Orwa noted that the recently enacted political parties act had brought some new dimension in terms of coalition agreements.  “The party is aware of the emerging multiple legal interpretations of the Political Parties Act with regard to the formation and management of Coalitions and Coalition Political Parties,”  “The new act has some issues like depositing the agreement with registrar of political parties and the framework on admission of new members and we want the air cleared on this,” he said.  During the presser, Orwa shied off from failure by Wiper party to sign the agreement and announcement by Kalonzo that he was ready to work with Raila.  “That the party appreciates in equal weight the pressing timelines for critical decision-making and the need to move both expeditiously and in accordance with the Law,” he said.  He however retaliated the party’s committee to the One Kenya Alliance in a bid to end impunity and get transparency and accountability for the country.  “The party has demonstrated its commitment to the founding ideals and values and objectives of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA), including transparency, accountability and inclusivity,” he said.  By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 12 hours ago By Esther Dianah | 20 hours ago