COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli reacts to DP William Ruto’s remarks. [Jenipher wachie, Standard]  Francis Atwoli has responded to Deputy President William Ruto who referred to him as ‘foolish’ while speaking to Kenyans in the diaspora on Sunday.  In London Ruto said it was stupid for Atwoli, who is the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary General, to oppose the regularisation of NHIF reforms.  “When we came into office, we had 3.8 million people contributing to NHIF. Everybody was contributing Sh320, just like the Sh200 of NSSF. We decided to adjust so that the people who earn more, can pay more...but we were taken to court by a stupid man called Atwoli, he is a very foolish person,” said the DP.  But in a rejoinder, Atwoli alleges the DP was angry because he allegedly tried to stop him from laying his hands on funds meant for the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). “He calls me names when he is in London, telling the whole world that Atwoli is the most stupid person…It is better to be stupid that to be a thief,” Atwoli said.  Further, Atwoli called out the DP for disrespect saying he was like a father to him.  “I have said this before, Deputy President William Ruto will never be elected as Kenya’s president,” he added.  Atwoli claimed that the DP was incapable of taming corruption in the country saying his allies had a number of graft cases in court.  “How can DP Ruto tame corruption when the people around him are thieves? Tell me, who among DP Ruto’s people is sincere and honest about Kenyan issues?” he posed.  In an interview on NTV,  Atwoli said the DP was foreseeing his loss in the August 9 presidential polls, hence, his recent utterances claiming that elections will be rigged.  “He [Ruto] knows he is losing and he is trying to build up a case of justification of denying the outcome of the [August] elections,” said Atwoli in an interview with NTV.  Atwoli said the DP had exuded confidence in the electoral process when he said his votes would not be stolen even if his opponent’s brother [ODM Leader Raila Odinga] was appointed to head the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  The COTU secretary general was responding after the DP’s sentiments in the US that some people wanted to impose a presidential candidate on the Kenyan people.  “The International community appeal will not help you, it is how we manage our business as Kenyans,” he continued.  Additionally, Atwoli implored Kenyans to be in charge of their own matters [elections] and avoid violence after the August polls.  “We must be transparent and play clean politics. Whichever candidate loses the elections, let them be ready to concede,” he continued.  In an interview with Voice of America’s Esther Githui- Ewart, the DP had a tough time explaining how he would combat corruption.  Githui observed the ruling Jubilee party had had failed to address the blatant graft and abuse of office and power by senior government officials.  If elected president, the DP said he would start by giving financial freedom to the judiciary so that cases are expedited more efficiently.  “Corruption is all over our nation. Our proposal to deal with corruption is not pointing fingers or a game of accusations.  “We will start by operationalising the Judiciary Fund. This will ensure that the cases taken before the court are not delayed,” said Ruto.  By Amos Kareithi | 58 minutes ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 14 hours ago