Borabu MP,  in an orange cap, with Raila Odinga at Keroka. [Stanley Ongwae, Standard]  Kalonzo Musyoka's pointman in Gusii, Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, has denied defecting to Raila Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement (ODM).  Setting the record straight in a statement, Momanyi said he did not decamp to ODM during Odinga's meeting in Keroka Town on Thursday.  He claimed that his actions during the Azimio la Umoja-led rally were misconstrued as a defection.   "Wearing an ODM cap does not mean anything, because we all understand what resignation entails. To be clear, Odinga was trying to woo me into ODM; it was not a willful move,"  explained Momanyi.  A position supported by Wiper deputy leader Victor Swanya, who affirmed that Momanyi is still a member of the party and fully behind the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principal.  "We are clear that the MP never resigned. Momanyi is in Wiper Party," said Swanya.  The U-turn comes hours after Momanyi threw his weight behind Odinga and assured Azimio's presumptive presidential candidate of his support in the vote-rich region.  "I assure you that I am fully behind you in your journey. I will support you from this side of the country," Momanyi told Raila after being fitted with an ODM branded cap.  Addressing the Azimio rally in Nyamira, however, Dagorreti North MP Simba Arati did not mince his words over Kalonzo’s conditions to join the coalition.  "When Raila was being sworn at Uhuru Park as the People's president, you [Kalonzo] were not there. And yet, you are giving us conditions before you join Azimio. You are at liberty to join us or follow your heart to wherever you want to be," said Arati.  A message former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth reiterated as he called for unconditional negotiations. "We don't want to move along with people giving us conditions of working together. Let those who want to join us do so unconditionally," said Kenneth.  By Kevin Ogutu | 3 hours ago By Obare Osinde | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 4 hours ago By Ben Ahenda | 5 hours ago