Azimio la Umoja team led by Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati at Mukuyuni in Tongaren Sub-county in Bungoma on March 18, 2022. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga from Western yesterday took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto for waging a class war.  Led by Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, the politicians said Ruto's campaign strategy targeting a particular group of voters will negate efforts initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Odinga to unite Kenya.  Speaking during Azimio la Umoja campaigns at Mukuyuni yesterday, Wamalwa dismissed DP Ruto's bottom-up economic model as unrealistic. He was accompanied by Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Trans Nzoia Woman Rep Janet Nangabo and DAP-K secretary-general Dr Eseli Simiyu.    "Unlike Raila who has a clear road map to promote devolution by increasing sharable revenue to counties from 15 per cent to 35 per cent, Ruto has been busy taking about economic theories," said Wamalwa.  He urged the people of Western to vote for Raila because he fought for devolution and the Second Liberation.  He added that the former premier was the champion for 2010 Constitution and if the 7 million people who voted for the new document did not listen to him, Kenya would not have devolution which has brought services closer to the people.  "Ruto never mentioned anything to do with devolution in his acceptance speech as the UDA presidential candidate. That tells you that he is one man who could kill devolution. Raila has prioritised devolution in his manifesto," said Wamalwa.  He regretted that Ruto was busy accusing President Kenyatta of weaponising war against corruption and unfairly targeting his allies whenever he (president) goes for the corrupt individuals.  "What Ruto is doing is politicisation of corruption and Raila has been categorical that he will slay the dragon of corruption if elected president," he said, adding that President Kenyatta and Raila are determined to unite Kenyans.   Governor Wangamati said they have embarked on grassroots campaigns to drum up support for Raila and Azimio la Umoja coalition.  By Nathan Ochunge | 20 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago