Deputy President William Ruto with ODM leader Raila Odinga at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium Kisumu during Madraka day celebrations on June 1, 2021. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  ODM leader, Raila Odinga yesterday stormed the political backyard of Wiper party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka and declared Azimio coalition will accommodate all Kenyans who subscribe to the vision of building a cohesive nation.  The former Prime Minister also dismissed Deputy President William Ruto’s claims that State operatives were plotting to rig him out in the forthcoming presidential election, terming them baseless and hypocritical.  “He (Ruto) has been moving around the country giving handouts to groups. We know his monthly income is Sh2 million only, yet he has been spending over Sh100 million every month. Where does the money come from?” posed Raila.   He went on, “He went to the US and claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta is corrupt. Who is corrupt between him and the President?”  Raila, who was hosted by governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) in a rally in Machakos town steered clear of the controversial 2017 pact between him and Kalonzo. The Wiper leader has insisted should that the pact be revisited as the basis of signing a coalition agreement for the purpose of the 2022 presidential poll.  Instead, the former PM dwelt on highlighting a raft of policies that will drive the economic transformation agenda of his government should he be elected to succeed Uhuru Kenyatta as the next head of State.  “We walked together in 2013 and 2017 general elections. My wish is to bring all Kenyans together, which is why I started Azimio la Umoja. We will not discriminate against any Kenyan provided they agree with our ideals,” said Raila.  He reiterated his plan to assist the poor and vulnerable households through a social protection programme of Sh6,000 stipend per family. “Many families in Kenya are faced by challenges beyond their control which predispose them to extreme poverty and misery. Sometimes the rains fail and drought leads to famine, exposing people to the risk of starvation. We shall implement such a programme in Kenya because it has worked in other countries such as the United States, Europe and Namibia,” said Raila.  Raila also popularised his proposed plan for universal healthcare; “Babacare” which he said will restore dignity to all Kenyans irrespective of their income. He said his administration will put in place policies to enhance industrialisation and increase production in the agricultural sector.  “We are bringing a complete economic revolution. We shall restore profitability in the agriculture sector through subsidising farm inputs, especially fertilizer. We will also embark on a rapid infrastructure development and expansion to facilitate faster and more efficient movement of goods,” said Raila.  By Nathan Ochunge | 8 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 8 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 8 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 9 hours ago