Deputy President William Ruto welcomes Safina party presidential aspirant Jimi Wanjigi at Kasarani as a special guest for the UDA National Delegates Convention. [Courtesy, Twitter]  Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday, March 15, urged speakers at the UDA National Delegates Conference (NDC) not to utter remarks that border on disrespect to President Uhuru Kenyatta.  At least 4,350 delegates had endorsed Ruto’s presidential candidature in the August 9, 2022 General Election.  Safina Party presidential aspirant Jimi Wanjigi made a surprise appearance at the NDC held at the Moi International Sports Complex, Kasarani.  Ruto made his key speech on Tuesday afternoon and thereafter invited speakers to the podium among them Jimi Wanjigi.  Wanjigi’s first words to the crowd were: “Kuna wimbo mlikuwa mnaimba… Yote yawezekana (There’s a song you were singing earlier… All is possible…,” the crowd chimed in, shouting: “bila Uhuru (without President Uhuru Kenyatta)”.  Wanjigi, thereafter, conducted a mock choir, leading the crowd to sing: “Yote yawezekana bila Uhuru”.  In his subsequent remarks, Wanjigi said he and Deputy President William Ruto share a friendship that dates back to the run-up to 2007 General Election.  At the time, he said, he and Ruto were supporting Raila Odinga’s presidential candidature.  Wanjigi said he shifted loyalty to President Kenyatta after a pre-election pact was signed between Ruto and President Kenyatta in the lead-up to March 4, 2013, General Election. Wanjigi said he played an important role in birthing the UhuRuto deal.  The businessman accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of oppressing dissenting voices and plotting to extend his rule beyond the constitutionally-allowed two-term limit by supporting Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  The billionaire said “sons of powerful politicians in Kenya” had teamed up to ensure no ordinary Kenyan gets to rule the country.  “We must be very clear… We are coming together on the ideas of the people of Kenya, not on families. Theirs is a quest to protect powerful families’ interests,” he said.  Wanjigi, who insisted he will be on the ballot as a presidential candidate, further said he was open to talks with Ruto to form a pre-election deal.  Upon returning the microphone to Ruto, who was the emcee for the evening session, the deputy president faulted Wanjigi for leading the crowd to utter remarks that appear to disparage President Kenyatta.  “Mr Jimi Wanjigi, Uhuru Kenyatta is Kenya’s President, and he is still my boss. So, even when we’re singing, let us not say ‘yote yawezekana bila Uhuru’, please.  I’m urging you with due respect. Thanks,” the deputy president said.  In his speech earlier, DP Ruto said his 2022 presidential bid marks the third time he is expressing interest in the top seat.  The other times were 2007 and 2013.  In the previous two attempts, Ruto said, he shelved his ambition after Raila Odinga and President Kenyatta won the delegates’ approval in 2007 and 2013 respectively.  “I know, without any shadow of doubt, that the time has come [for me] to represent the hustler nation; the time has come to go all the way to the finish line, and secure the place of the hustler nation at the decision-making table,” he said.  “I will forever remain profusely thankful to my friend President Uhuru Kenyatta for a successful working partnership in three elections. I have discharged my duties faithfully, and there is no single task that the president assigned me that I did not execute in full,” he said.  Ruto, however, said that after President Kenyatta won re-election, he asked him (Ruto) to stay away as the Head of State charted his own legacy path.  The DP, in his acceptance speech, further accused the president of witch-hunt and intimidation, especially after the Jubilee administration won a second term.  Dr Ruto also said if he is elected president, he will end politicians’ conflict of interest and corruption disguised as economic and political programmes.  The deputy president pledged to combat corruption, revamp the agriculture sector, create jobs for the youth and empower the Judiciary.  “We have to make our choices carefully on August 9. What will be on the ballot then, will be based on these two possible outcomes: either Kenya moves forward into prosperity, or Kenya regresses into tyranny and poverty,” he said.  By Dennis Tarus | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 2 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago