Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate, Raila Odinga, presenting at Chatham House, UK. [Source: Screen Grab, Raila Odinga Facebook]  Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga has disclosed how the Russia-Ukraine war will affect Kenya if an amicable solution is not found.  Raila says Kenya stands to lose over Sh10 billion worth of exports if the differences between the two states are not resolved.  The ODM leader made the remarks at Chatham House during his one-week tour of the United Kingdom.  In his speech, Odinga called on the United Nations to use dialogue and diplomacy and find a solution to the ongoing dispute between the two countries. ‘In Kenya, we stand to lose 10 billion Kenya shillings worth of exports to Russia as a result of sanctions. We export tobacco, coffee, tea, spices, live trees, plants, bulbs, roots, cut flowers, edible fruits, nuts and melons to both Russia and Ukraine,” Odinga stated.  “In 2020, we imported wheat, maize and fertilizers worth 40.6 billion Kenya shillings ($406 million) from Russia. This might be equally adversely affected by the sanctions and the disruptions of war at a time our economy can hardly afford such stress,” he added.  He also maintained his support for the sanctions imposed on Russia by the West, which he argued will hurt the economic interests of Kenya and Africa.  “Even though the sanctions imposed on Russia by the West will hurt the economic interests of Kenya and Africa, they are actions that I support,” he said.  Moreover, Odinga proposed the use of dialogue in resolving disputes.  He explained to the audience at Chatham House how he worked with President Uhuru Kenyatta to resolve long-standing conflicts and disagreements among communities and political parties.  It is at this point that Odinga revisited the Constitution amendment conversation where he promised to respect the Supreme Court’s decision on the matter.  “The Initiative held public consultations and suggested various reforms with regard to public policy, the constitution, elections, inclusivity in government, endemic corruption and improving the general well-being of our people. The BBI is currently tied up in the Supreme Court whose ruling we shall abide by,” Odinga said.  In addition, Raila laid bare what his government plans to do should he win the presidency in the upcoming August 9 elections.  He promised to increase county revenue allocation by 10 per cent (as was proposed in the BBI), amend the constitution, encourage transparency in the use of public resources, promote inclusivity in government and focus on supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs).  “I am convinced that our Constitution still needs some reforms. For example, a candid look at the relationship between Parliament and the Executive is urgent,” Odinga concluded his speech.  Yesterday, Odinga held talks with the UK’s Minister of Armed Forces James Heappey. In his social media accounts, he said the two discussed defence and security.  “The UK has been one of Kenya’s most loyal and dependable defence and security partners. We had a robust discussion on enhancing our ties moving into the future,” Mr Odinga posted.  He was in the company of Kenya’s High Commissioner to the UK Manoah Esipisu. The Azimio la Umoja Movement presidential flagbearer was yesterday scheduled to meet Theo Clark, the UK Prime Minister’s Trade envoy to Kenya.  His entourage includes governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. Joho and Junet arrived in the UK on Monday.  By Kamau Muthoni | 55 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 55 minutes ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 55 minutes ago By Michael Saitoti | 55 minutes ago