Deputy President William Ruto has furiously distanced himself from claims that he wanted to impeach his boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta.   In a meeting with Mt Kenya elders on Saturday, President Uhuru reportedly said he parted ways with his Deputy President after learning that he was scheming to topple him ahead of his time.  But in a rejoinder, the Deputy President said he would not try to impeach the president, arguing that he [Ruto] had been on the forefront of the president's campaigns, both in 2013 and 2017.  Ruto was speaking during a Kenya Kwanza rally in Kilifi County on Sunday. "Please respect those of us who campaigned for President Uhuru and made him President. Don't bring useless, empty propaganda, negative ethnicity because you have no plan and agenda," said Ruto.  He added;" ...because your project has been rejected by the people of Kenya, that is why your so desperate and spreading falsehood and propaganda."   Deputy President William Ruto during a Kenya Kwanza rally. [Twitter]  Ruto said those accusing him of propagating an impeachment should be ashamed of themselves.  "As Deputy President, I know what I must do and I will never, I have never and I will never and it has never happened, that I could be part of anything that could bring down the government of Kenya.  "And those spreading those lies, shame on you, shame on you, shame on you, you deserve nothing but shame," he said.  Additionally, the Deputy President observed that his competitors were employing misinformation in their politics because Kenyans have rejected their project.  “Those known to overthrow the government are known. We are not that foolish. Stop this conmanship.”  Elders who attended the meeting told The Sunday Standard that the president said his deputy was encouraging opposition protests.  "The president told us that Ruto was going behind his back, planning how he could close ranks with Raila to impeach him at an appropriate time," Mathioya MP Peter Kimari said.  By Jacinta Mutura | 1 hour ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 12 hours ago