Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. [File, Standard]  Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria, who is also the leader of Chama Cha Kazi Party (CCK), has announced a plan to join Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance alongside 21 other parties.  Through a Friday, March 4 post on his Facebook page, Kuria said: “This is to inform Kenyans that Chama Cha Kazi Party and 21 other political parties are in early talks with the Kenya Kwanza Alliance that will lead to a very broad based grand coalition that will deliver the nation to peace and prosperity. [More] details to follow.”  This comes just days after Kuria maintained that the Azimio La Umoja camp is not an option for him as the country heads to the August 9 polls.  Speaking in Kiambu County earlier this week during the burial of mother to former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Kuria said he will always be on the winning side. Kuria, who landed in the country on February 19 from Dubai where he had been receiving treatment, has also announced he will be running for the Kiambu Governor seat.  “Vox Populi, Vox Dei (‘the voice of the people is the voice of God’) So help me God. Under your wings, I feel safe. Mungu mbele,” Kuria said while annoucing his candidature for Kiambu gubernatorial seat.  Recently, Moses Kuria met with OKA principals and said they had agreed to work together. He said he informed them that he won’t join them if they team up with Azimio la Umoja.  It is, however, not clear which are the other 21 political parties set to join Kenya Kwanza alongside Kuria’s CCK.  Upon returning to the country, the MP held a thanksgiving service rally at Thika Stadium which was attended by party leaders Martha Karua (Narc-Kenya), Mwangi Kiunjuri (TSP) Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, MP Patrick Wainaina and a host of other leaders.  In Thika, Kuria said he has been asked to take a stand – to choose between Azimio la Umoja or Kenya Kwanza. He however said, he was in neither of the two; he was on God’s side.  By Kevin Ogutu | 3 hours ago By Obare Osinde | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 4 hours ago By Ben Ahenda | 5 hours ago