Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani. [File, Standard]  National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani is expected to present Budget estimates for the next financial year in a few days, but already, there are signs that this crucial part of the national agenda could be rocked by disagreements in Parliament.  First, MPs have asked the CS to address the question of the Division of Revenue Bill, which is pending in the Senate. Already, there is a dispute between the legislators, with MPs proposing one figure and senators a much higher one, meaning that unless the two Houses embrace dialogue, there is likely to be an impasse over just how much counties should be allocated.  Crucially, unless the two Houses can reach an agreement on this, Mr Yatani cannot present his Budget estimates as required by law and there is a real risk that this will affect crucial government operations in July, such as paying civil servants' salaries and meeting the country's debt obligations.  With an election coming up in August, the stakes on who has what say in the Budget have been raised, with the parties expecting to win already indicating what they want included in the estimates to fulfill their pledges to voters. Similarly, the outgoing administration has its own priorities. These conflicting standpoints have left the Treasury in a quandary as it has to balance the different competing interests. That is why it is important for it to reach out to legislators with a view to finding amicable solutions to the challenges ahead. It must also ensure prudence on the part of the outgoing administration – which has a high appetite for debt – to ensure the incoming one does not find its hands tied and its debt obligations unsustainable.  This is the time for top officials and policymakers at the Treasury as well as elected representatives to show leadership and bequeath the country a Budget that is at once realistic and takes into account the aspirations of wananchi.  Without dialogue and consensus, it will be difficult to pass the Budget on time, and this will have far-reaching consequences for the government and country. Now more than before, the country needs voices of reason and leaders who can reach out across the isle to drive consensus despite the political heat caused by ongoing election campaigns.     By Godfrey Ombogo | 1 day ago By Editorial | 4 days ago By Editorial | 4 days ago By Editorial | 5 days ago