Deputy President William Ruto in Garsen, Tana River County with the Kenya Kwanza team during the endorsement of Hussein Dhado as the team’s governor candidate.  Kenya Kwanza Alliance has criticised the government for failing to cushion Kenyans from the rising cost of living.  Speaking in Longonot centre in Naivasha, the leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto took issue with the government for not addressing issues of taxation.  Ruto claimed the current challenges facing Kenyans started soon after the ‘handshake’ between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, which he says fanned the collapse of the Big Four Agenda.   He accused the government of forgetting poor Kenyans who cannot afford basic commodities and instead of giving out millions in bailouts to state institutions in financial distress.  Ruto defended his time in government, saying in that period, he and President Kenyatta managed to construct the Standard Gauge Railway, increase road network and electricity connections.  “Under my government, we shall make sure there is free health cover for all Kenyans and no family will sell its assets to pay medical bills,” he said.  On his part, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi questioned the decision by the government to relocate cash meant to buy fertiliser for farmers to other ministries.  He warned that farmers would continue to suffer in the coming months as the fertilizer prices continued to skyrocket.  “This is a government that has lost touch with reality on the ground and it’s evident with a President who has lost the support of Mt Kenya leaders,” he said.  Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula alleged there is a plot by the State to use security agencies to intimidate voters.  “We are aware of a plan by the State to rig the coming General Election and we are asking the youths to be on the lookout,” he said.  This was echoed by Tharaka Nithi Senator Prof Kithure Kindiki who said that they were keenly monitoring the role of the security agencies in the elections.  “The Kenya Kwanza government will be keen to support upcoming entrepreneurs unlike this government which is supporting the rich,” he said.  Others who spoke were MPs Rigathe Gachagua (Mathira), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu) and Jane Kihara (Naivasha), former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and Nakuru senator aspirant Tabitha Karanja, among others.  By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 3 hours ago By Steve Mkawale and Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago