ODM National Chairman John Mbadi addresses members of the press on March 3, 2022, at Chungwa House, Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, The Standard]  Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Party has dismissed Deputy President William Ruto’s claims that there are plans to compromise Kenya’s democracy.  Dr Ruto made the allegations on Tuesday during his tour of the United States, where he alleged that the State had resorted to threats, intimidation and blackmail to muzzle dissenting voices.  Speaking at the ODM’s Chungwa House Headquarters in Nairobi a day later, the party chairperson John Mbadi said the deputy president’s remarks indicate Ruto’s unwillingness to accept the August 9, 2022 polls outcome.  “The signs are clear, the mountain (Mt. Kenya) is shifting [its support from Ruto]. There is no way he is going to win this presidency. No wonder he has started speaking the language he is speaking,” said Mbadi. Ruto, during an interview at the Loyola University on Tuesday, said there were people seeking to consolidate their interests under a certain presidential candidate and had resorted to “manipulating decisions of people at different levels”.   “The only concern Kenyans have is the intrusion by agencies that try to manipulate decisions of people at different levels. The good thing is that the People of Kenya have resisted any attempts at subverting their will,” said Ruto.  Mabdi, however, denies any State interference in planning the upcoming general election.  “The fact that President Uhuru Kenyatta is supporting Raila Odinga does not compromise our electoral process…The DP is bitter, claiming that elections will be compromised because Uhuru did not endorse him,” said the ODM party chairperson.  “Not long ago he (Ruto) told us that his votes cannot be stolen; he told us that even if [Raila Odinga’s brother] Oburu is [appointed as] the IEBC chairperson he (Ruto) will win [the presidential election]. Is he [now] admitting that he has been participating in stealing elections?” posed Mbadi.  “Let him come back to Kenya and prepare to be [the] opposition leader,” added Mbadi.  The deputy president is on the record accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta and his allies of attempting to extend their political and economic influence beyond the Jubilee administration’s 2022 limit.  He claims the Head of State is backing Raila Odinga’s presidential bid with his (Uhuru’s) interest in mind.  By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago By James Munyeki | 16 hours ago By Caroline Chebet | 16 hours ago