The Standard Group PLC and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) have signed a deal that will give the youth a voice in the run-up to the August 9 General Election.  The two organisations signed a Joint Advocacy on Election Campaign targeting the young generation aged between 10 and 24.  The partnership was signed at the Standard Group Headquarters on Mombasa, Nairobi, and witnessed by the Standard Group CEO Orlando Lyomu and UNICEF-Kenya representative Maniza Zaman.  Also at the function, was Standard Group’s Editor-in-Chief Ochieng Rapuro.  There will be an essay-writing competition that will allow the youth to speak up on key areas of challenge in their constituencies. The essays should target policy and macro decision-makers such as the president, respective county governors, among others.  The issues highlighted should be those they’d wish addressed by the country’s next administration.  “The young people with an interest in the future of Kenya are hereby welcome to air their voices during the electoral period. We are inviting the young persons to write and talk about what they would like the next government to do them,” said UNICEF’s representative Maniza Zaman.  The competition has two sets; one targeting children aged between 10 and 16, and another targeting those aged between 17 and 24.  Entries should be submitted by April 19 ahead of the announcement of the winners on April 26.  The winners will be chosen by a panel of judges drawn from the Standard Group and UNICEF. The essays will be 1,000-word articles, or text and video.  The articles, UNICEF said, will focus on six key priority areas. These are quality education, health, ending violence against children, rural sanitation, children protection against harmful cultural practices and climate change.  Standard Group CEO Orlando Lyomu observed that for a while now, children have been ignored in decision-making, especially when it comes to election needs.  “The decisions that are made by adults directly affect children, even though they don’t vote. For the first time, we will give them a platform to air their views because essay-writing captures the thoughts of the writer,” said Lyomu.  Standard Group’s Editor-in-Chief Ochieng Rapuro said the best essay writers, once they attain legal working age, could be trained and absorbed by the Standard Group.  “We have run campaigns before, and we gave people a platform to grow. So, yes, we may also absorb anyone who might demonstrate exemplary skills,” said Rapuro.  The winning essay will be featured on all major Standard Group platforms, inducing Standard Newspaper’s Generation Next Magazine, Kiboko Club and Ms President Television Show that airs on KTN Home and Standard Digital.  The articles will also be published on the official UNICEF websites.  Winners will receive branded UNICEF T-shirts, a gift from Standard Group and a certificate of participation signed by both The Standard Group PLC and UNICEF.  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Emmanuel Too | 2 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago