Businessman Jimmy Wanjigi and a section of Party members address the press at his Kwacha Group office on Tuesday, February 22, 2022. [Samson Wire. Standard].  Businessman Jimi Wanjigi was today questioned by detectives in connection to the 11 guns and 485 bullets which the DCI directed him to surrender last week.  Wanjigi appeared before DCI Serious Crime Unit investigators where he was made to record statements over the issue.  He was however allowed to leave after recording his statement last evening.  Lawyer Willis Otieno, who is representing Wanjigi, said his client was detained for close to five hours by the investigators before he was allowed to leave. Last evening, Otieno said the police had not instructed his client to return after yesterday’s questioning.  On January 21, DCI head of Serious Crime Unit Kuria Obadia issued a 72-hour ultimatum to Wanjigi to present the guns and bullets to the DCI.   In a letter dated February 21, Obadih said DCI officers who were conducting investigations over land had learnt of a man who was armed at the Kwacha group of companies head offices in Westlands.  On that day, heavily armed DCI officers together with officers from the Anti-terrorism police unit raided Wanjigi’s offices and said they were enforcing a warrant of arrest by a Nairobi court.  Obadiah said it was on January 17 that the officers learnt that the armed man was an ex-Recce squad officer who worked as a bodyguard.  In his letter, Obadiah said the bodyguard was illegally in possession of the firearm.  “As a matter of National security, you are required to surrender the firearms and ammunition held by yourself as you do not hold any firearm certificate “  “You are therefore required to surrender the under listed firearms and ammunition to the undersigned at the DCI headquarters within 72 hours from the date and time of delivery of this summon,“  the letter from DCI read in part.  Among the weapons that the DCI claims are illegally in the hands of the businessman include A CQ with 20 bullets, two Ceska pistols with 5o bullets each, A pistol with 50 bullets, a shot Gun with 60 bullets and three Glock 19 pistol with 50 bullets each.  Obadia also wants the businessman to surrender another gun, Gilboa with 20 bullets.  On January 17, Wanjigi through his lawyer, Otieno, denied that he was in possession of any firearm without a license.   "The issue of the guns is being handled in court. My client does not possess any other guns “Otieno told The Standard on phone.  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Mercy Kahenda | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 10 hours ago