Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria escorted by police officers at the JKIA after landing from Dubai on February 19, 2022. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria kicked up a storm after announcing his plan to join Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance (KKA) alongside 21 other parties.  The Chama Cha Kazi (CCK) party leader, through a post on social media yesterday, said: “This is to inform Kenyans that Chama Cha Kazi Party and 21 other political parties are in early talks with the Kenya Kwanza Alliance that will lead to a very broad based grand coalition that will deliver the nation to peace and prosperity. [More] details to follow,” wrote Kuria.    When Saturday Standard reached out to him, he confirmed the same with a simple “Yes”, adding that he was moving to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance with “some parties in OKA”. Kuria, however declined to divulge further information on the identity of parties and when they agreed to join KKA.  Recently, Kuria met with OKA principals and said he was ready to join them but only if they won’t team up with Azimio.  Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, however, categorically stated that Kuria has not joined OKA and dimmed any chances of working with KKA.  Also, recent pronouncements by OKA principals have exposed fears of discord over coalition mergers and honouring of deals.  On Wednesday, the Martha Karua (Narc-Kenya), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Kalonzo (Wiper) and Cyrus Girongo (UDP) axis for a second time postponed a scheduled signing of their coalition agreement, citing legal loopholes.  Karua explained that the ensemble had postponed the exercise to polish emerging legal issues but added they remain committed to their unity. The move has, however, cast light on operations of the alliance. The delay in signing of the “internal pact” is seemingly informed by ongoing negotiation talks with the Raila Odinga-led Azimio movement.  Political analyst Alex Mwathi now predicts that OKA will collapse due to prolonged delays.   “When you have Kalonzo who is demanding that if he joins Azimio as OKA that he must become the presidential candidate to fulfill the promise crafted with other bodies that had nothing to do with OKA, you see a situation where it might not happen and where the coalition collapses in the next few weeks,” said Mwathi.   By Brian Otieno and Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By Omelo Juliet and Robert Amalemba | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 11 hours ago