Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate before he attended an English Premier League match between Arsenal FC and Middlesborough FC at the Emirates Stadium.  Fever-pitch campaigns are here with us again and politicians are making all manner of promises as they seek votes.  There will be a transition of power on August 9 to a new set of leaders after Kenyan voters make their choice at the ballot. And the contest is getting heated with aspirants putting their best foot forward.   We have heard all manner of promises.  However, the two main presidential candidates seem to have forgotten sports in their acceptance speeches after their parties endorsed them to go for the top seat.  Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga did not say anything on sports should either one of them be elected Kenya’s fifth president. For them, sports seems a by the way. But they will be back with bags of promises once they realise they mentioned nothing about the welfare of men and women who entertain Kenyans on track and pitch.  While we will welcome the duo and other politicians to tell us their plans for sports, they should mean what they say.  We expect the presidential candidates, for example, to tell us their solutions to overcome the standoff currently between Kenya and the world football governing body FIFA.  We know the impasse might be solved before the General Election in August, but the fact that neither Ruto nor Raila or any other presidential candidate has discussed Kenya’s football woes at length, should make us worried about their vision for sports.  Sports lovers have not forgotten the promises made by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his running mate Ruto when they sought votes in 2013.  They promised five world-class stadiums, but Kenyans are still waiting to see the facilities. This means the majority of the politicians are not committed to improving the lot in sports.  Therefore, as they continue to campaign we must remind them that empty promises won’t work this time around.  Sports is a big industry and money from the sector supports our economy, besides creating opportunities for our talented sportsmen and women. That is why it should be treated with the seriousness it deserves.  Sportspeople would like to listen to all politicians and make them deliver on their promises and manifesto. They should also not vanish after elections, only to come back for votes after their tenure in office ends.  Over to you sportspeople. Give the politicians an ear and make informed decisions at the voting booth. Your future depends on your choice.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago