Walter Mong’are speaks during Umoja Summit Party’s NDC at Western Heights, Westlands. [Twitter, Umoja Summit Party]  Walter Mong’are alias Nyambane, the former Director of Youth and Development in the Office of the President, has joined the race for the presidency, promising to spur inclusive growth, increase transparency, accountability, and integrity.  Addressing delegates after he was endorsed for the presidency under Umoja Summit during the party’s National Delegates Convention (NDC) at Western Heights, Westlands, Mong’are -  a trailblazing Redykyulass and Red Kona comic – said he is drawing inspiration from the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.  The Vijana Tugutuke champion who formerly hosted Kiss FM's breakfast show alongside Caroline Mutoko before being appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the Director of Youth Affairs in 2017, said Zelenskyy, a comedian turned president, like him played the role on television, and is now the country’s unlikely wartime hero, in a fight against Russia.  “For a moment, he [Zelenskyy] imitated the president and he became one. I imitated the President and I, too, am becoming. As Umoja Summit, we shall continue to speak with one voice, because this is our land, country, and moment together,” said Monga’re to thunderous applause from supporters at the NDC. Mong’are, who was advised by President Uhuru in 2017 to drop his famed Nyambane moniker that was inspired by his comical roles, such as his imitation of then-President Daniel Arap Moi, urged the youth to take up an active role in politics under Umoja Summit to determine their future.  “The general election is on August 9, a number of new beginnings, and, therefore, as a country, we have a new dawn. We shall not use sunroofs or stand on top of lorries and trucks to lecture the youth or dish out money. We shall have a sit-down and listen to them for their voices to influence the decisions we are making.  We shall not be making promises but giving them our commitment,” pledged Mong’are  Walter Mong’are (left) at Western Heights, Westlands, during Umoja Summit Party’s NDC. [Twitter, Umoja Summit Party]  He noted that more youthful representation, as aspired under Umoja Summit’s government, would contribute to practical solutions that advance development.  “The youth, who form a large percentage of Kenya’s population hasn’t been accorded the opportunity to be at the table to influence policy. We, thus, assure the youth that Umoja Summit Party is your home; it is your vehicle. All we, as party leaders, have to do is to steer. Your thoughts, dreams, and plans will decide the direction it takes,” added Mong’are.  Responding to assertions that the presidential poll is a two-horse race pitting Azimio la Umoja flagbearer Raila Odinga and Kenya Kwanza Alliance’s Deputy President William Ruto, the former director bashed his competitors over early campaigns and called for the respect of the rule of law.  “We believe that we are not late into the race for the presidency. Our symbol is a pot because we are cooking great things for Kenya and thank like-minded individuals who have joined us from other parties,” he said.  Adding: “There are those who have been campaigning outside the set period - if we are going to pride ourselves as a country that respects the law, then we must respect IEBC and the calendar of elections. Have no fear, we are not late, voting is on August 9.”  A message he underscored when speaking to The Standard in February soon after he tendered his resignation, vowing not to be boxed into existing political ideologies and formations. “At my age, I believe that we need to propagate some things afresh. There is no value addition by jumping into bandwagons,” he said.    By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By  Nzau Musau | 1 hour ago