President Uhuru Kenyatta shaking hands with Prince Edward at the State House, Nairobi on Thursday, Mach 17. [Photo, State House]  President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday, March 17, held talks with His Royal Highness Prince Edward, the Earl of Wessex and Forfar at State House, Nairobi.  During the meeting, Prince Edward commended President Kenyatta for his commitment to championing the needs of young people around the world through the Duke of Edinburgh International Award.  The award, founded in 1956 by the late Prince Phillip, gives young people aged 14 to 24 access to a global framework that empowers them to learn and grow through non-formal education while working towards a globally recognized accreditation. President Kenyatta and Prince Edward also discussed the President’s Award Kenya, a self-development programme that equips young people across the country with positive life skills to make a difference for themselves, their communities, country and the world.  The President’s Award Kenya is a member of the Duke of Edinburgh International Award Association and has over 100,000 young people drawn from 750 schools, universities, middle-level colleges, youth groups, rehabilitation centres and open award centres across the country participating.  President Kenyatta got a brief on the devastating earthquake in that hit Japan recently following a phone conversation with Japan Prime Minister Fumio Kishida.  President Kenyatta expressed Kenya’s solidarity with the Government and people of Japan as the relevant authorities continue to monitor the development.  The two leaders also discussed issues of mutual interest to Kenya and Japan, including the eighth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD8) that will be hosted by Tunisia in August this year.  Kenyatta also had a phone conversation with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The two leaders discussed trade between the two countries as well as peace and security in the Horn of Africa among other matters of importance to Kenya and Canada.  By Lynn Kolongei | 5 minutes ago By Standard Team | 6 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago