Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka (left), President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga show solidarity after Raila was unveiled as the coalition flag bearer during the Azimio Coalition Rally held at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi, Nairobi on March 12, 2022. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka now says he does not regret endorsing ODM Raila Odinga's presidential candidature for the third time.  Kalonzo says he and Raila have come from a far and it is only prudent that he pushes him to complete the work.  The Wiper leader formally on Saturday signed a pact to join the Azimio la Umoja movement as Raila was officially endorsed as its presidential flag bearer.   Last year Kalonzo said he would not support Raila in the August 9 general election.  Speaking to NTV in an interview, Kalonzo said he had been humiliated under the NASA outfit together with his co-principals, and would not consider teaming up again.  The former vice president said he was getting ready for 2022 with the intention of walking away from Raila, whom he had already deputised twice in 2013 and 2017.  "As of now, it is unthinkable that one Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka would support Raila for the third time," he said, adding that if all fails he would rather retire and go back to his Tseikuru home.  He went on to say that he felt cheated and played by the ODM leader.  According to the Wiper leader, supporting Raila in this election would make him the most "stupid fellow on earth".  But today, Kalonzo said although he thought Raila would say ‘Kalonzo Tosha’, he has no reservations and he knows the ODM leader would deliver.  He said although there have been some issues that needed to be sorted between them, he was always ready to work with Raila because he is capable of the task ahead of him.  “Mimi na ndugu yangu Raila tumetoka mbali, tumekula tear gas kutoka enzi za LDP, ODM-Kenya, NARC, CORD na NASA. But today it is historic because it is the day we resolve to take the foundational change that will take the country ahead,” he said.  “I stand here to ask all my Wiper and OKA supporters to fully support my brother Raila Odinga. Let us not give the country to the corrupt. Raila is the ideal candidate for that job,” said Kalonzo.  He said it is worth noting that President Uhuru Kenyatta has played a great role in the current political landscape in the country.  Kalonzo said Uhuru has proved and stood out as a leader whose desire is to see a united country.  Earlier on while addressing Azimio delegates at the KICC, Uhuru said Raila is best suited to succeed him as Kenya’s fifth president.   The Jubilee Party leader noted that the ODM leader will run an all-inclusive government, move Kenya to a respectable future, tackle corruption, and unite communities.  “Should he win the presidency; he won’t leave any of the party leaders behind. You’ll see more of Kalonzo, Charity Ngilu, Alfred Mutua, among others, in Raila’s government. May God protect our fifth president,” said Uhuru.  The president went on to laud Kalonzo for shelving his ambitions in support of Odinga under Azimio.  “There are others who are more capable than others to lead Kenyans like Kalonzo and we thank him for his bravery,” said Uhuru.     By Harold Odhiambo | 37 minutes ago By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Too Jared | 2 hours ago By Dennis Tarus | 3 hours ago