Murang'a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria addresses the press at his Usawa Party headquarters in Nairobi on February 14, 2022. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  Usawa Kwa Wote party delegates have endorsed Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria as the party’s presidential candidate in the August 9 polls.  After taking an oath to steer his party to victory, Iria vowed not to deputise anyone. "They should forget about the two-horse race narrative. I am sure once I clinch power, they will be busy saying I have stolen votes,’’ he said.  Iria has given both Azimio la Umoja and Kenya Kwanza alliances a wide berth and said he will unite the Mt Kenya region behind him.  "I am a candidate they should watch out for. I have the numbers and there is no doubt about that,’’ he told the more than 3,000 party delegates and aspirants at the KICC in Nairobi. The delegates painted the venue red as the outgoing Murang'a governor launched his household empowerment economic model. Iria said his blueprint will promote investments of ordinary Kenyans and their families.    He said the economic framework targets farmers across the country. The county chief further said his party seeks to united all Kenyans as the elections approach.  He argued that unlike the other hopefuls pointing issues like corruption as the key problems facing the country, he said lack of unity is the main challenge.  "The national cake is never divided equally and that’s where the problem lies," he said.  Iria also said the ‘Gikuyu and Mumbi’ the cultural and traditional parents of the Agikuyu community had bestowed on him spiritual leadership, the reason why he must go all the way to the ballot in August.  "I am the guardian to the origin of our community. Our great grandfather Gikuyu and Mumbi left me custodian of their graves. No one will be asked if we go wrong, I was left the responsibility, and I am preserving the community against a curse,” he said.  He pledged to donate a cow to each home should he succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta arguing that it is a long term investment for every household. "If a cow produces 10 litres of milk daily, every household will earn Sh400 daily. That is the kind of empowerment Usawa government promises," he said.  Other parties present at the NDC include People’s Party of Kenya, Party of Democratic Unity, Kenya Patriots Party, People’s Empowerment Party and Kenya Social Progress Party.  By Jacob Ng'etich | 8 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 9 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 20 hours ago By Abdiaziz Roble | 20 hours ago