Othaya Mp Gichuki Mugambi has his Body Mass Index (BMI) checked during a KNH-Othaya Annex community outreach day at the Othaya Approved School Grounds. [Ndung'u Gachane, Standard]  You can now access outpatient services at Kenyatta National Hospital Othaya Annex, according to the facility's boss Peter Muiruri.  The hospital also announced it had waived Sh25 million in medical bills incurred by patients from poor households.  Initially, the hospital which serves the eight counties in Mt Kenya region was only accepting patients on referral and accident as well as emergency cases.  But now, following Dr Muiruri's announcement, patients can walk in and get treated with those in Othaya sub-county being the main beneficiaries of the new move. Muiruri made the announcement on Wednesday during a medical camp organized by the hospital in partnership with the Othaya National Government-Constituency Development Fund.  “We will continue partnering with the MP of this area to sponsor regular free medical camps as we seek to alleviate the suffering of residents who mostly suffer from non-communicable ailments,” said Muiruri.  During the medical camp held at the Othaya Approved School Grounds that was also attended by Othaya MP James Mugambi, over 500 needy people were issued with National Hospital Insurance Fund cards that will enable them to receive free treatment.  Mugambi urged the hospital to prioritise local traders when issuing tenders for the various supplies, including foodstuff.  Construction and equipping the hospital have so far cost the national government Sh2 billion.  The MP claimed some local leaders had written to the two speakers of parliament to have the hospital relocated, a move he said he will oppose.  "Let us not politicise the health of our people. Instead, we should work together to ensure our people get the best possible healthcare," said Mugambi.  He added: "The hospital does not only have the best children's ward in the country but offers other specialised services not available in any other health facility in the region. Those opposed to the hospital are still the same people who are using social media to discredit its management."  By Fidelis Kabunyi | 15 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 15 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 day ago By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago