Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. [James Omoro, Standard]  Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga has dismissed reports that he has quit Homa Bay governorship race.  There have been rumours that Mr Magwanga is stepping down in favour of former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero to be his running mate.  But addressing the business community in Homa Bay town, Magwanga said he is still in the race and was optimistic of winning the seat.  Magwanga said he cannot be a running mate of anybody. “I don’t want to betray the people of Homa Bay because we had agreed on the development projects which I will implement to improve their lives when I become a governor,” he said.  Magwanga contested the governorship in 2017 in a hotly contested race in which Cyprian Awiti won.  “Everybody in this county knows that all opinion polls conducted on Homa Bay gubernatorial race revealed that I am the top candidate. Let everybody know that I am in this race to win,” he said.  Magwanga, who is eyeing the ODM ticket, told Homa Bay residents to shun the mentality that the party nomination favoured some aspirants.  Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero. [James Omoro, Standard]  He argued that there are two aspirants who claim to have acquired ODM ticket for the seat.  Magwanga argued that the same ticket cannot be held by two contenders at once.  “A gubernatorial nomination certificate of one political party cannot be held by two aspirants. Let the people know that ODM will conduct a nomination in which members will vote,” Magwanga said.  He told residents to come out and vote if the party announces the nomination date.  He told residents that he will put strategies in place to ensure he is not rigged out during nomination.  The aspirant promised county residents of improved service delivery.  He told youths in the county to join vocational training Institutes to acquire technical skills.  Magwanga's other rivals are Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, ODM Chairman John Mbadi, Kuppet Secretary General Akelo Misori and businessman Jared Kiasa.  By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 22 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago