ODM Party leader Raila Odinga. [File, Standard]  Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga has exuded confidence that he will floor Deputy President William Ruto in the August 9 presidential election.  Speaking in Nyakach, Kisumu County on Friday, March 11, Odinga laughed off Ruto’s poll-rigging concerns.  The former prime minister said he’s confident to emerge victorious in a transparent election.  “I’ve heard you (Ruto) lamenting to Americans that Kenya is planning to rig the presidential election in August. I also understand that you’re planning to set up a parallel tallying centre [to protect your votes from being stolen]. Rest assured that I’ll defeat you in the polls,” Odinga said when he addressed mourners in Nyakach. The ODM chief had attended the burial of former Nyakach MP Ondiek Ochilo.  It is reported the deputy president plans to set up a parallel tallying centre to guard his votes from being rigged.  Speaking in the United Kingdom on Monday, March 7, the deputy president alleged that the credibility of Kenya’s electoral system is under threat, as the ruling administration “seeks to install a puppet” president”.  President Uhuru Kenyatta supports Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  Odinga’s latest attack on Ruto’s political muscle comes slightly over a week after he referred to the deputy president as a “political lightweight”.  “Ruto has been fighting me politically. I held his hands, and realised that he still has a long way to mature fully in politics. I am confident to beat him in the August general election,” Raila said at Kanga in Rongo, Migori County on March 3 during the burial of Jared Osiany, the father of Industrialisation Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) David Osiany.  “I’m asking Ruto stop chest-thumping [that he is miles ahead of me in the quest to become president]. He still has a long way to go in politics,” said Raila, adding: “The only thing I see in him is an insatiable appetite to clinch the presidency.”  The former prime minister referred to the deputy president as his “political protégé”.  “If he believes he is man enough, then let him face me in the August 9 presidential election. That day it would dawn on him that he was my [political] student.”  The ODM boss said this time around he is sure that his march to State House is unstoppable.  “Prepare for my grand march to State House. My competitors do not mean well for this country; they only want to worsen Kenya’s economic situation.”  By Jacob Ng'etich | 4 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge and Juliet Omelo | 4 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Olivia Odhiambo | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 4 hours ago