Clinical Officer Cliff Momanyi testified on Wednesday at Milimani court [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Cliff Momanyi, the Kisii Teaching and Referal Hospital Clinic Officer who testified on Wednesday in the ongoing murder case against Migori Governor Okoth Obado is yet to report to his Kisii home.  Momanyi gave his testimony yesterday and became unreachable on phone, prompting his family to report the matter to Kisii Central Police Station.  Through the occurance book number 54/23/3/2022 this evening, the family reported their kin missing, hours after he testified in the murder of university student Sharon Otieno.  A family has told The Standard Momanyi's phone number was traced and last seen around Bomet before it was switched off. According to Dr Momanyi’s wife, Mary Kimaiga, her husband left their home on Tuesday saying he was travelling to Nairobi for work-related issues. He, however, did not reveal to her he was going to testify in Sharon’s murder case.  “My husband was supposed to come back on Wednesday night but he is not yet home at home, his phone indicates that he was last online at around 7.29 PM on Tuesday, as a family we are very much worried now that we know the matter he was involved in,” said Kimaiga.  The mother of two told the Standard that she was surprised when a friend told her that her husband‘s photo was in The Standard Newspaper Thursday issue page 4, with news he had given evidence in the murder case involving the Migori Governor before a Nairobi Court.  Ms Kimaiga said she is worried about her husband's whereabouts and has appealed for help to locate him since his phone is off. Ms Kimaiga said at no one time has her husband ever complained of being in danger.  Dominic Rwenyo and Shem Onduso who are friends and colleagues to Dr Momanyi said they were equally surprised that he was involved in such a high-profile murder case and that he had never mentioned he was one of the key witnesses.  Rwenyo said they reported at the Kisii DCI offices when their colleague’s wife asked whether he had spoken to them before.  Onduso said the government should have put Dr Momanyi under a Witness Protection Programme, wondering how he could be allowed to travel alone from Kisii to Nairobi.  By Elvince Joshua | 59 minutes ago By Elvince Joshua | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 6 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 8 hours ago