Several groups led by FIDA-Kenya protest violence against women and girls in Nairobi. [Fred Kagonye, Standard]  Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris has condemned an incident where a woman motorist was seen being accosted by boda boda riders along Nairobi’s Forest road.  Passaris joined several people led by the Federation of Women Lawyers-Kenya (FIDA-Kenya) protesting the lawlessness by motorcycle riders, said Kenya ought to be ashamed over the actions seen in the viral video, coming at the backdrop of International Women’s Day.  “What the men did to her shows they are totally uncultured, lack character, and have no respect,” the Woman Rep lamented.  She urged the government to speedily act on the matter and bring all the culprits to book, while also regulating the motorcycle industry. “I want them paraded. They need to be locked up for a long time so they can serve as an example,” Passaris said.  Passaris averred that it shouldn’t take arrests and prosecutions for the government to act on the boda boda menace and impunity on Kenyan roads.  Police Spokesperson Bruno Shioso on Monday acknowledged the lawlessness by motorcycle riders, promising to act on it.  “Most of the riders end up on the road without following the rule of law. We are doing operations, especially in urban areas to restore sanity on the roads,” Shioso said during an interview with Citizen TV.  He however advised motorists against driving off in the case of a road accident, as has been suggested on social media.  “This is a very gray area because now you have to make a balance between your safety and following the law, but I advise that you first analyse your situation and do what you think is best for your safety,” he said.  Several groups led by FIDA-Kenya protest violence against women and girls in Nairobi. [Fred Kagonye, Standard]  Several women-affiliated groups are protesting the violence against women and girls in public and private spaces, with a procession across the Nairobi Central Business District (CBD).  So far, authorities have arrested 16 suspects and impounded five motorcycles linked to the attack on the motorist.  "Operations continue as we appeal for more information from the public," police said.   By Hudson Gumbihi | 12 hours ago By George Njunge | 12 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 21 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago