Deputy President and UDA’s presidential candidate William Ruto signs documents during the party's National Elections Board’s interview at the Hustler Centre, Nairobi on March 12, 2022. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Today marks a defining moment for Deputy President William Ruto’s State House journey as UDA crowned him as its presidential flag bearer.  Over 5,000 delegates converged at the Kasarani indoor arena during the UDA National Delegates Convention where they formally endorsed Ruto.  Ruto was last Saturday cleared by the UDA National Elections Committee after he presented his papers.   Tuesday’s UDA NDC comes just two days after a charged Ruto took President Uhuru Kenyatta head-on in his Kiambu backyard over his stand to support ODM leader Raila Odinga under the Azimio la Umoja coalition.  On Saturday, Uhuru led Azimio delegates in formally endorsing Raila whom he termed as the best leader to succeed him and take Kenya forward to economic prosperity.  He accused the government of using state machinery to intimidate those opposed to President Uhuru.  “The puppet President you want to impose on us has no interest in businesses, farmers, and the unemployed youth. Your project will fail miserably,” Ruto said.  Ruto’s grip on Uhuru’s backyard of Kiambu was boosted on Sunday was boosted by Senator Kimani Wamatangi’s defection from Jubilee to UDA.  He has declared his intention to vie for the Kiambu gubernatorial post where he will square it out with William Kabogo, Moses Kuria and the incumbent James Nyoro.  Also expected at the NDC are Kenya Kwanza principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford-K).  Leaders from other parties who have declared their support for Ruto’s presidential bid are also expected at the event.  They include Tujibebe Wakenya Party leader William Kabogo, Chama Cha Kazi’s Moses Kuria and The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri.  Narc-Kenya party leader Martha Karua on Sunday dismissed the notion that she will attend the UDA NDC via Twitter after rumours were rife she would throw her weight behind the Deputy President.     By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago By Dennis Tarus | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 2 hours ago