Mohamed Mohamud, a ranger from the Sabuli Wildlife Conservancy, looks at the carcass of a giraffe near Matana Village, Wajir County. October 25, 2021. [AP]  Sometime in November last year, the National Drought Management Authority (NDMA) warned Garissa residents of a severe drought.  NDMA warned that the vegetation condition index value for Garissa, for example, was below normal. The water levels in most pans were also below normal.  This is what causes Arawale Hirola Wildlife Community CEO, Mr Hassan Sheikh Ali, sleepless nights.   Despite such worrying reports, there has been an increase in charcoal burning, deforestation and bushfires on indigenous forests.  “Sadly, this wanton destruction of the forest goes on unabated,’’ said Mr Ali.   “Besides the acts committed against natural forests, cars using harmful fossil fuels emit carbon in Garissa town, which keeps growing bigger by the day,” he lamented.   The Garissa County Livestock Director, Dr Hared Hambe, noted an increase in herbivores’ diseases like Foot and Mouth Disease, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia, foot rot, rabies and diarrhoea as the drought continues to bite.   And Garissa Sub-County Medical Officer of Health, Dr Mohamed Ahmed, said since temperatures hit 36 degrees Celsius, malnutrition rates had risen by 13.2 per cent among the county’s 138,764 children under five years.  “Since both humans and livestock have little coping mechanisms, livestock diseases have resulted in low milk and meat production,’’ he said.   Since only a few herders can truck water, buy fodder and afford vet services for their livestock, the majority lose their animals in huge numbers to disease and drought.    Amidst such struggles, many pastoralists have migrated to distant hostile regions looking for pasture and water.  Sadly, Mr Ali regretted such pasture hunts often result in bloody conflicts.   “Causes of such unhealthy conflicts must be addressed because the effects of climate change are long term,’’ he suggested.    Committed to wildlife conservation, Ali noted that whereas humans care for their domestic livestock none cares for wildlife.   “Constant selfish deforestation, wanton wild bushfires destroy wildlife habitat and food source,’’ he said.   Looking into the past and viewing the future, Mr Ali called on wildlife lovers to truck water and hay to wildlife habitats and grow forests in wildlife-depleted areas.  “Roasting in a heatwave in a world of global warming we have to reduce deforestation and aggressively embrace afforestation,” he said.    He also lamented that while poachers target wild animals for meat and trophy, some animals invaded human habitats, killing and injuring people.  “Hunger is driving some herbivores to co-graze with domestic livestock in the human habitats,” he said.  Co-grazing exposes both domestic animals and wildlife to diseases and infections.  “While livestock can be treated, untreated wild animals are likely to infect their forest brethren,’’ said Mr Ali.  He observed that most urban and rural poor, who feel the effects of climate change, are unaware of what is going on and so do nothing about it.  He called for adaptive measures to educate people on the reality of climate change.   “Properly managed, climate change can be a gateway to socio/economic growth,” Mr Ali said.   He suggested that small-scale farmers be trained to store rain or flood water.   “Harvested water can be used to grow food and grow forests as long-term food security and ward off malnutrition in the ecosystem. Improving communication and adapting better policies can create a culture that empowers those harming forests, like charcoal burners,’’ he said.   By Bakari Angela | 14 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 days ago By Mike Ekutan | 9 days ago By George Kaimenyi | 12 days ago