National Police reservists after being commissioned by Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Malim Mohamed during a security meeting in Mochongoi, Baringo south on March 8, 2022.[Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  The government has revived the National Police Reservists in an effort to deal with bandits that have reigned terror on residents of Baringo North and South constituencies in the recent past.   Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Mohamed Maalim yesterday commissioned 80 newly-recruited NPRs in the Mochongoi area, one of the troubled spots.  He said the civilian gun holders will be trained by GSU officers and help in tackling the growing insecurity in the region.  "Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i promised to give police reservists and today we have recruited 80 in Baringo South and North. We need to see their work," he said. The heavy presence of security personnel was witnessed as the administrator in the company of local leaders and other senior government officials toured the troubled spots under tight security.  The deployment of the officers is seen as a sigh of relief to the residents, who have over and over pleaded with authorities to recruit the reservists.  The residents believe that the reservists know the area well and would help in repulsing the attackers and ensuring that villagers live in peace.  In May 2019, the state banned reservists in the area on claims that some of them were taking sides in the attacks.  Yesterday Mr Maalim said explained that the NPR was disbanded because some of them used their firearms illegally.  He warned those recruited to do the work expected of them.   Maalim said he was disturbed to see women and children scamper for safety as bandits staged attacks.  "We know your lives have changed but March 8, 2022 marks a day to bring sanity in this region," said Maalim while addressing the locals at Mochongoi Assistant County Commissioner's ground.  He said as government they continue to follow up on what locals had requested during a meeting with leaders from counties of West Pokot, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet in February.  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi had in January promised to engage the government to have police reservists deployed to the region.  Gideon had visited the area after armed herders raided and killed one person in Lomoiywet area in Mochongoi.  By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago By Kamore Maina and Brian Okoth | 3 hours ago By Mbugua Ng’ang’a | 3 hours ago