The media industry aims to play its mindful role during the electoral process. [The Standard]  The 2022 presidential debate will take place in July 2022, media stakeholders have today announced while launching the Kenya Presidential Debates 2022 in Nairobi.  The Media Owners Association of Kenya, Media Council of Kenya and the Kenya Editors Guild said the venue and the exact date would be announced later.  The three entities have agreed to have a joint inclusive approach to the process.  Clifford Machoka, the head of external affairs and marketing at the Nation Media Group, was appointed as the head of the presidential debate secretariat. Machoka will liaise with partner institutions, political parties, and other stakeholders in the electoral process.  He will also organise the 2022 Presidential and Deputy Presidential debates.    Machoka will be assisted by Leo Matisya, the head of Research and Media Monitoring at the Media Council of Kenya. Matisya will, in turn, be deputised by Rosalia Omungo, the Chief Executive Officer Kenya Editors Guild.  “A team of senior editors from across media houses has been established to provide stewardship of the content aspects, given how critical the debates are to ensure the public legal obligations are served. Structures have been put in place to ensure the interest of Kenyans and to deliver fairness to all concerned,” reads a statement by the three partners.  The media industry aims to play its requisite role during the electoral process.  “We reassure the public and stakeholders in the electoral process we will give Kenyans quality issue-based  Presidential and Deputy Presidential Debates that will enable their decision making and effective participation in this year’s election,” read the statement.  History  The first presidential debate in Kenya was held for two hours in 2013, attracting eight candidates.  They were: President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Lawyer Paul Muite, former Education PS James ole Kiyapi and Mohammed Abduba Dida.  In 2017, however, President Uhuru Kenyatta did not show up for the debate.  By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 hour ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 hour ago