Deputy President William Ruto addressing supporters at Thika Stadium, Kiambu County. March 13, 2022. [Jonah Mwangi/DPPS]  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday took his campaign to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Kiambu backyard.  He urged residents to back his presidential bid, despite the Head of State’s preference for Azimio candidate Raila Odinga.  Dr Ruto addressed a rally at the Thika Green Stadium. He took a swipe at President Uhuru over his attack on church leaders during the Sagana III meeting last month.  “When we went across the country over the ICC cases, it is the same church leaders who prayed for us,” said Dr Ruto, promising to have an inclusive government should he succeed Mr Kenyatta. He revisited how he stood with President Uhuru when they faced ICC charges at The Hague.  “It is surprising that out of the eight million Kenyans who voted for us none could be considered to lead other than ‘the man of riddles’,” Dr Ruto said.  The DP further claimed for close to four years the President had tormented the people who voted for him.  “When we had the ICC cases, we walked with church leaders who you are now calling names. You call us thieves, but because we fear God we have forgiven you even if you intimidated and insulted us.”  He accused the government of using state machinery to intimidate those opposed to President Uhuru.  “The business industry is under siege from people who want to destroy businesses.  “The puppet President you want to impose on us has no interest in businesses, farmers, and the unemployed youth. Your project will fail miserably,” Dr Ruto added.  He said the Kwanza Kenya Alliance will not allow a few people to seat in hotels and offices and dictate to Kenyans who will be their President.  Meanwhile, the DP called on the police to stop harassing boda boda riders and give them the chance to comply with government regulations.  If elected, he promised to set aside funds for employment as outlined in the Big Four agenda. He said this year’s elections will be free and fair.   The Thika rally was attended by Kiambu governor aspirants who defected to Kenya Kwanza. They included Chama Cha Kazi leader Moses Kuria, former governor William Kabogo of Tujibebe party and Senator Kimani Wamatangi of Jubilee.  Mr Wamatangi said after consulting his family and friends, he decided to join Kenya Kwanza. He called on President Uhuru to allow residents to vote for a president of their choice.  Kabogo challenged Mr Kenyatta to retire peacefully, saying, “We want to be allowed to exercise our democratic right in choosing a President in the August polls.”  Other aspirants eyeing the governor seat include Ferdinand Waititu, Patrick Wainaina and Stephen Ndichu.  The rally came just a day after Dr Ruto went on a charm offensive in lower Eastern counties of Meru and Tharaka Nithi.  By The Coversation and Reuters | 14 seconds ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 14 seconds ago By Oscar Obonyo | 14 seconds ago By Biketi Kikechi | 14 seconds ago