Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni in Kampala. [Twitter, @skmusyoka]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi today held a lengthy discussion with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni in Kampala.  The One Kenya Alliance principals' discussions with the Ugandan President at the State House in Nakasero centred on the situation in South Sudan, particularly the planned retreat between President Salva Kiir and his First Vice President Riek Machar.  Also discussed were bilateral issues between Kenya and Uganda.  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka with President Yoweri Museveni at State House, Uganda. [Twitter, @skmusyoka] Earlier, Kalonzo held discussions with former Ugandan Special Envoy to South Sudan Betty Bigombe and British High Commissioner to Uganda Kate Airey in Kampala, where they deliberated on the way forward on the Southern Sudan political conflict. Ms Bigombe was also present at the Statehouse meeting.  The earlier talks focused on the status of the security regime of the Revitalised-Agreement on the Resolutions of the Conflict in South Sudan (R-ARCSS) in particular unification of the two armies.  This has resulted in the peace process' delay, considering the lifespan of the R-ARCSS ends in less than a year.  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in Uganda. [Twitter, @skmusyoka]  Kalonzo is Kenya's Special Envoy to South Sudan and has been part of the peace process for two years.  “My consultations with the two envoys focused on the planned retreat in Uganda, which is postponed indefinitely. President Museveni was to convene the high-level retreat,” Kalonzo said.  Uganda is one of the guarantors in the tripartite agreement between South Sudan, Uganda and Sudan.  “We have agreed that President Uhuru Kenyatta, working closely with President Museveni, needs to play a more proactive role, including revitalising IGAD," Kalonzo concluded.   By Jacob Ngetich  | 7 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 7 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 13 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 23 hours ago