Former Energy CS Davis Chirchir walks into the Supreme Court during the judgement of the presidential petition in 2017 [George Njunge, Standard]  Former Energy CS Davis Chirchir has made a comeback into government as the new chief of staff in the office of the Deputy President.  Chirchir, appointed on February 24, met the staff at DP William Ruto’s office.  The position fell vacant following the death of Ken Osinde on December 10 at the Nairobi Hospital after a short illness.  A memo to the staff written by Administrative Secretary Shadrack Mwadime yesterday asked the team to attend the meeting. “You are invited for a meeting with the new Chief of Staff on Tuesday,” read the memo in part.  Chirchir was the chief agent for President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 and 2017.    He took a low profile after he was removed from the Cabinet in 2015.  Two years after Uhuru relieved him of his Cabinet position, the head of state appointed him as the chief agent for the Jubilee party in July 2017.  Chirchir lost his CS position following legal suits preferred against him by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission over allegations of impropriety at the Kenya Power and Lighting Company.  Chirchir was initially the head of ICT at the Interim Independent Electoral Commission before he was appointed Energy CS.  In the 2017 election, the opposition accused him of manipulating the poll results.   Speaking in London in 2017 where was scheduled to give a talk at the Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House, ODM leader Raila Odinga said Chirchir tampered with the results.  Chirchir is a Bachelor of Science graduate from the University of Nairobi and has a Master of Business Administration from Royal Holloway, University of London.  He started his career at the now-defunct Kenya Posts & Telecommunications Corporation.  He left KPTC after it was restructured.  Chirchir took a low profile until May 2009 when he joined the IIEC.  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Mercy Kahenda | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 10 hours ago