Murang'a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria's billboard along Thika - Muranga highway. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has so far spent Sh40 million to advertise on billboards in Mt Kenya region, as it seeks to broaden its appeal ahead of the August elections.  Nyeri Town MP Mr Ngunjiri Wambugu said the ruling party had erected over 200 billboards in efforts to counter Deputy President Dr William Ruto, who has been making inroads in the President’s backyard.  Jubilee is supporting ODM leader Mr Raila Odinga’s presidential bid under the Azimio la Umoja coalition that has brought together more than 20 parties.  Dr Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has partnered with, among others, Amani National Congress leader Mr Musalia Mudavadi and Mr Moses Wetang’ula of Ford-Kenya to form the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. “We want to take up every space available and put up billboards reminding residents of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s achievements in the region. We are doing all this hoping the existence of Jubilee Party will permanently remain registered in the minds of the electorate,” Mr Wambugu told The Standard on Wednesday.  He added: “We have realised that billboards are a major boost to our campaigns. They get people talking, after which some may challenge some of your ideas while other ideas are supported. They also create an impression that a party or candidate has the financial muscle to campaign due to the huge costs involved.”  The Jubilee billboards bear the image of the President. Someone who does not know Mr Kenyatta is retiring may think he is seeking re-election based on the number of billboards that line major roads in the region.  Mr Wambugu said the billboards were also meant to help the President reassert his influence in the region, especially after his fallout with Dr Ruto that split Jubilee.  Murang’a Governor Mr Mwangi wa Iria’s Usawa Kwa Wote Party is also spending heavily on campaigns as the county chief seeks the presidency.    Placed strategically  Usawa Kwa Wote Director of Strategy and Political Affairs James Mwangi said they had put up 72 billboards in 42 counties. The billboards have been erected strategically along highways and near settlements.  Mr Mwangi said the Sh18 million spent on the billboards was mainly generated from party membership fees. Part of the money has also been contributed by the ‘Friends of Mwangi wa Iria’–a lobby group,” Mr Mwangi said.  The party has another strategy it calls ‘Adopt a Billboard’ where the governor’s supporters pay for some of the billboards.  “The billboards are costly but they have positively impacted on the governor’s presidential campaigns,” Mr Mwangi said on the phone.  One needs between Sh150,000 and Sh1 million to have their name and image imprinted on a billboard. The charges are mainly determined by the billboard’s location and size. For example, a banner measuring seven metres by one meter costs up to Sh16,000.  Former Water and Sanitation Principal Secretary Irung’u Wairagu, who is seeking to succeed Wa Iria on a Democratic Party ticket, has not been left behind.  The former PS, who is popularly known as Wairagu Wa Maai, had served from March 2018 before resigning in February. Mr Wairagu’s campaign branding officer Magochi Murathi said they have contracted an advertising company that has mounted three billboards for them.  “We will put up more billboards before the end of this week. It’s a marketing strategy we feel will work well for us as we seek to popularise our candidate. The strategy shows the seriousness of a candidate. It has a unique impact. Billboards help to register the image of a candidate in the minds of voters,” Mr Murathi said.  He added: “We have 20 banners measuring seven by four meters each in addition to the billboards. The message sent out through a billboard can reach people and places the candidate may not.”  Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina, who is hoping to supplant UDA-leaning Governor Mutahi Kahiga, has billboards in all major towns. Others in the race for Nyeri’s top job are Kamanga alias Anko G, who is seeking the Jubilee ticket, Mr Gachara Kamanga, Mr Thuo Mathenge and Mr Peter Munyiri.  The senator said the billboards cost him between Sh120,000 to Sh180,000 every month depending on location.  “It appears some people get irritated when they see my billboards. They have been destroying them but I am unrelenting,” said Mr Maina. He was reacting to the destruction of his billboard at Othaya junction along the Karatina-Nyeri road by unknown people, an incident he attributed to his competitors.  A county official from the rates department said out of 70 billboard spaces, 40 have been booked by one person up to September.  In Kirinyaga, Governor Anne Waiguru and Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici are competing for billboard spaces as they battle for the governor’s seat.  At one point, county officers brought down Ngirici’s billboards under unclear circumstances. This forced her team to buy four billboards, which means Ngiciri will only pay county levies.  “We also have 14 fully painted vehicles and an aeroplane,” Ngirici said.  By Nderitu Gichure | 1 hour ago By Nathan Ochunge | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 5 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 13 hours ago