ODM Raila Odinga and his Azimio la Umoja allies at Bungoma Posta ground on March 4, 2022. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza Alliance and Azimio la Umoja Movement are in for a major political contest in western Kenya.  ODM leader Raila Odinga and his allies appear keen on locking the vote-rich region but face fierce opposition from ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula.  Mr Odinga’s presidential bid received a major boost after winning over former Unctad Secretary-General Mukhisa Kituyi during Azimio campaigns in Bungoma County on Friday.  Some political analysts believe Mr Odinga’s vote-hunt in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia has started bearing fruit after winning the support of key politicians from the two counties. Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, DAP-K party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, former Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu, former ministers Mr Fred Gumo, Dr Noah Wekesa, Mr Musikari Kombo and Dr Kituyi support Mr Odinga’s presidential quest.  Sugar factories  Mr Odinga enjoys significant support in Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia counties.   On Friday, Mr Odinga exuded confidence that the people of Western will support him in the coming elections. He pledged to revive ailing sugar factories.    Mr Martin Andati, a political analyst, argued that Kenya Kwanza could find it hard wooing the region to support Deputy President William Ruto’s bid for the presidency.  “Ruto and his allies appear to have run out of ideas and now want to sign a charter with voters, it will not work out,” Mr Andati told The Standard yesterday.  He said Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula had failed to unite the region and give a clear political direction.  Chaos that erupted at the burial of former Mt Elgon MP John Serut after allies of Mr Odinga and Dr Ruto clashed point to the political intrigues in the region.  Mr Wetang’ula led the Kenya Kwanza brigade at the funeral which was turned into a political contest between the two leading political formations.  Allies of Dr Ruto seized the opportunity to rubbish Mr Odinga’s earlier tour of Bungoma, while urging locals to support their alliance.  Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga) accompanied Raila during his tour of the region.  Their presence appears to give Azimio an added advantage in its push to woo voters in Western.  Rivalry in both political outfits has been playing out and, according to analysts, the competition could hurt Azimio and Kenya Kwanza in the long run.  DAP-K leaders and their ODM counterparts engaged in what could be described as supremacy battles during Mr Odinga’s tour.  In Kenya Kwanza, UDA, ANC and Ford-K are yet to agree on the formula they will adopt to select candidates.  By Josphat Thiong'o | 2 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 4 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 4 hours ago By Standard Team | 10 hours ago