Rachel Ruto at Emali Market in Makueni County on Thursday, March 24. [Stephen Nzioka, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto’s wife, Rachel, says her husband’s generosity should not be frowned upon.  Addressing a women’s group at Emali Market in Kibwezi West Constituency, Makueni County on Thursday, March 24, Rachel Ruto said her husband’s generosity, especially to the church, did not start recently.  “His habit of donating to the churches is not something he started today,” she said.  “Let people not be bothered by his generosity. Yeye atapeana, atapeana, atapeana, hata mpaka hatakuwa nayo (He’ll continue donating funds to the church to the point where he’d have nothing else to donate),” she said. “The Bible says that the hand that gives, is the one that receives. What’s the secret of being blessed?” she posed.  “I know the deputy president. He’s someone who is selfless. He can sacrifice his needs so that someone else benefits,” she said.  Rachel Ruto also took the opportunity to campaign for her husband’s presidential bid.  “The party to vote for [in the August 9 polls], is UDA. If God makes him (Ruto) president, he will do a lot of good things for Kenyans.”  “Do we need any other person to govern Kenya besides William Ruto?” she posed.  This marks the first time the DP’s wife is publicly defending her spouse against incessant attacks over his donation to churches.  ODM leader Raila Odinga is on the record accusing Ruto of donating funds stolen from Kenyans, allegations that the deputy president denies.  On February 23, during the Sagana Three convention, President Kenyatta indirectly accused his deputy of acquiring funds through graft, and “cleansing” the monies through donation to churches.   “Some of the church leaders have been compromised by huge donations donated by corrupt leaders,” he said.  “The money you are receiving is the same money that was to be used in building dams in Elgeyo Marakwet County so that God’s children can get water,” said the president.  By Elvince Joshua | 4 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 8 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a and Jacob Ng'etich  | 10 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 10 hours ago