Javan Omani. He served as Lurambi MP between 1992 and 1997. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Former Information and Broadcasting Assistant Minister Javan Ambululi Omani is dead.  Omani, who served as Lurambi MP from 1992 to 1997, died while undergoing treatment at Shieywe Community Hospital in Kakamega County on Wednesday, according to family members.  “We have lost the cornerstone of our family but we have accepted the will of God. Our father has been battling prostate cancer for a very long time. When his health deteriorated a few days ago, we took him to the hospital," said Micah Omani, his elder son.  Micah said his father’s death has left a void as he was a pillar of the family and a leader for all. “My father kept the family together despite being a politician and clergy. He was a charismatic leader who believed in servant leadership. He brought the people of Lurambi together and was voted for overwhelmingly in the 1992 elections,” said Micah.  The former MP’s body was taken to Kakamega Referral Hospital's mortuary awaiting burial. He leaves behind a widow, Rasoha Akhasungu, and 10 children.  Mourners at Javan Omani’s home in Ematsayi, Lurambi. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Omani was first elected to parliament in 1992 under Kenneth Matiba’s Ford Asili after he trounced Wasike Ndombi of Kanu in a hotly contested race.   In 1994, he made headlines after he decamped to Kanu with his then- Shinyalu counterpart Japheth Shamalla and Benjamin Magwaga of Ikolomani.    After being appointed by former President Daniel Moi as Assistant Minister for Broadcasting and Communication, he was replaced as MP by Dr Newton Kulundu (now deceased) of Ford Kenya, who went on to serve two terms.  “My father lost at the Kanu nominations in the 1997 elections after being rigged out. He didn’t defect, but retired from elective politics and focused on his church work,” added Micah.  Omani studied theology at Kaimosi Bible School in the 1960s and later served as the pastor of the Pentecostal Assemblies of God (PAG) church and Pentecostal Evangelistic Fellowship of Africa (PEFA).  He went on to establish his own ministry, the Bible Literacy League of Kenya, and founded, at least, 50 churches across the country. At the time of his demise, the ministry accounted for 147 churches under its umbrella.   By Kamau Ngotho | 25 minutes ago By Biketi Kikechi | 2 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 11 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 11 hours ago