Deputy President William Ruto says his regime will allow Miguna Miguna back to the country and face Kenyan law. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has promised to allow Canadian-based Kenyan lawyer Miguna Miguna back to the country if he becomes president after the August 9 elections.  Miguna was deported to Canada in February 2018 for his role in the unofficial swearing-in of opposition leader Raila Odinga as "the people's president".  In an interview with Voice of America (VOA) Swahili newsman, Ben MJ Muriithi, the DP said he would allow the controversial lawyer back to the country because he ‘is a Kenyan’.  He explained that if Miguna broke any law in the country, he should be dealt with according to the law as opposed to deporting him. "We will bring back Miguna Miguna in the country within the shortest time possible when I become President,” he told the International news outlet.  “This is because he's Kenyan and even if he has committed a crime, our country has laws in place. I don't see any need for having refugees from other countries while our very own is a refugee in another country," Ruto added.  DP Ruto’s sentiments came after he was asked by the Voice of America (VOA) to take a stand over the dramatic deportation of vocal lawyer Miguna Miguna.  The anchor pointed out to the DP how the Jubilee government, which he has been part of for almost a decade, has been in the spotlight for disobeying court orders on numerous occasions.    He then highlighted the case of Miguna's deportation.  Miguna was arrested charged in court where he was released on bail.  However, the decision to deport him was hurriedly made after the courts had ordered his immediate release.  The immigration personnel at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport booked three tickets, including two security personnel and was taken to the airport.  Lawyers James Orengo, Julie Soweto, Nelson Havi and Cliff Ombeta could not pass through a ring of armed police who were guarding the Terminal 2 area where he was being held.  His lawyers could not access him despite obtaining High Court orders and were kicked out of the airport as they tried to serve the Immigration Department with court orders.  News platforms published that Miguna was roughed up and allegedly sedated, handcuffed and driven to the runway to board the plane that was then open for boarding.  Since then the lawyer has never come to Kenya as all his attempts have been futile.  Miguna moved to court seeking to have the state lift a red alert it issued to airlines not to carry him back to the country.  By Fredrick Ooko | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By James Munyeki | 5 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 9 hours ago