Deputy President William Ruto arrives at Heathrow Airport in London. [Rebecca Nduku]  Deputy President William Ruto has returned to the country.  Dr Ruto was away for 10 days, touring the United States and the United Kingdom.  Emmanuel Tallam, the director of communications at the DP’s office, said Ruto arrived in Kenya on Wednesday night, March 9.  The deputy president doesn’t have any lined up political rallies on Thursday, March 10, but would instead meet special interest groups at his Karen home in Nairobi, said Tallam. “He will hit the campaign trail tomorrow (Friday, March 11),” Tallam told The Standard. He, however, did not reveal the venue for campaigns.  Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetangula, who is a principal in Kenya Kwanza Alliance alongside Ruto, was in Coast recently and would wind up campaigns in the region on Friday, March 11.  Ruto won’t join them in Mombasa, Tallam said.  However, on Saturday, the DP will fly to Meru, where he’ll hold a series of rallies alongside his Kenya Kwanza co-principals.  During his US and UK tours, Ruto kicked up a storm when he attacked the President Uhuru Kenyatta-led government, saying it has done little or nothing for Kenyans in the Jubilee administration’s second term.  The deputy president also accused President Kenyatta of being a “squatter” in the opposition, while the Raila Odinga-led opposition “enjoyed privileges” in the government.  Ruto also questioned Kenya’s commitment to free and fair polls on August 9, alleging that the government was plotting to influence the election outcome in favour of Raila Odinga.  His remarks drew criticism from leaders affiliated to President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, who accused Dr Ruto of embarrassing Kenya abroad.  Ruto flew out of the country on February 27. He was accompanied to the foreign nations by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, among others.  By Peterson Githaiga | 7 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 10 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 15 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 23 hours ago