Peter Kenneth (left) said the DP should deal with the issue without mentioning Raila Odinga. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Azimio la Umoja has told Deputy President William Ruto to stop linking ODM leader Raila Odinga to the leaked plan to impeach President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Speaking in Kakamega yesterday in the company of Mr Odinga, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth said the President’s revelation that Dr Ruto wanted to impeach him is believable.  Mr Kenneth said the DP must deal with the issue without mentioning Mr Odinga.   “The allegations could be true because the person who stood to gain most from such a plan was Dr Ruto as he was next in line. He would assume the presidency in the event the plot went through,” said Mr Kenneth who accompanied Mr Odinga on his final four-day tour of Kakamega at Ileho Market, Shinyalu.  President Kenyatta addressed Mt Kenya elders on Saturday, after they visited him at State House, Nairobi, saying he would not back Dr Ruto’s presidency because the DP had wanted to have him removed.  Dr Ruto on Sunday distanced himself from the claims. Speaking at a rally in Kilifi county, he said; “...because your project has been rejected by the people of Kenya, you are desperate and spreading falsehoods.”  Mr Kenneth said Dr Ruto had now turned things around, blaming Mr Odinga for the impeachment plot in a desperate attempt to seek sympathy.  “He realised that he has no vote and is now seeking sympathy through lies. Dr Ruto is no longer certain of the mountain vote because Mr Odinga has started eating into the bloc after getting backing from the President,” he added.  Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli urged Kenyans to vote for politicians fit to lead. The Cotu boss also criticised ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi for labelling the ODM chief a state project, saying he was, in fact, Dr Ruto’s project.   Mr Odinga received defectors from other parties to ODM during his western tour. He urged the Luhya voters to turn out in large numbers on August 9.  He promised to check the rising fuel prices and lower the cost of living.  “Besides, the Azimio government will create a social welfare protection programme targeting poor households. Under the programme the households will get Sh6,000 per month,” he said.  In his tour of Shinyalu, Malava, Lugari and Likuyani constituency Mr Odinga pledged to revive the economy.   Mr Kenneth was with Azimio leaders Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Christopher Aseka (Sabatia), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Babu Owino (Embakasi East),  governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and James Ongwae (Kisii), who also called for the voting of trustworthy leaders.  By Judah Ben-Hur | 14 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 20 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 day ago