Businessman Ben Gethi at a Milimani court on Tuesday, March 01, 2022. [Collins Kweyu,Standard]  A businessman at the centre of the multi-million shillings National Youth Service fraud has been jailed for five years.  Ben Gethi was found guilty a handed the jail sentence for using forged documents to win a Sh105 million tender to supply solar lanterns to the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) during the 2013 General Election.  Anti-corruption court chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi ruled that Gethi and her business partner Joyce Makena bore the greatest responsibility for the attempt to benefit from illicit funds from the electoral commission.  “It was for Gethi and Makena that the crime of attempting to defraud the electoral commission happened. Although their illegal actions were nipped in the bud before they could benefit from the funds, they must bear the greatest responsibility for the crime,” ruled Mugambi. For the offence of presenting a false tax declaration to win the IEBC contract, Gethi and Makena were each handed a two-year jail sentence and an additional similar sentence for the second offence of forging a certificate of incorporation of their company Solarmak Technologies Limited.  They were given an additional one-year jail sentence each on behalf of the company with the magistrate stating that the sentences will run consecutively.  The magistrate however gave Gethi and Makena the option of paying Sh4 million each for the two offences to gain their freedom.  Former IEBC procurement officer Gabriel Ngonyo Mutunga was handed a three-year jail sentence or a fine of Sh2.8 million after the magistrate ruled that he was the key architect of the scandal to help Gethi and Makena win the contract using forged documents.  Willy Gachanja Kamanga, the IEBC procurement manager at the time the offence took place was fined Sh800,000 while the commission’s official Kennedy Guanye Ochae escaped with the lenient sentence of Sh200,000 fine or one-year jail sentence.  “Although the convicts did not receive any financial benefit from their fraudulent actions, their scheme involved attempts to interfere with one of the critical organs tasked with managing the elections and which would have messed up the process,” ruled Mugambi.  Mugambi added that the IEBC officials acted dishonestly by using their position to alter the tender documents in favour of Gathi’s company despite the evidence that they did not have the capacity to supply the solar lanterns.  According to the magistrate, the scheme was well executed and could have succeeded if one of the bidders did not raise alarm and stop the fraud.  Mugambi in his judgement stated that it was the IEBC officials who failed to comply with procurement rules and used loopholes in the procurement processes to commit fraud and that due to their actions, a company that was not qualified got the multi-million shillings’ tender.  He found that the scandal which happened at the height of the disputed 2013 general elections could have not been uncovered were it not for the complaints filed by one of the losing bidders.  The prosecution case was that sometimes in 2012, the electoral commission advertised a tender for the provision of solar lanterns to be used in the March 4, 2013, general elections in which 14 companies applied for the contract.  After a technical check, only two companies Solarmak Technologies Limited and Connections Limited met the criteria and proceeded to the evaluation stage.  The tender committee found that Solarmak Technologies Limited had the lowest bid of Sh105 million and awarded it the contract. Aggrieved by the decision, Connections Limited which had a bid of Sh107 million rejected filed an appeal claiming that there was fraud in the tendering process.  Their complaint is what triggered investigations and which discovered that Solarmak Technologies Limited had no capacity to supply the solar lanterns having been registered less than one month before IEBC advertised the tender.  By Peter Muiruri | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago