Several groups led by FIDA-Kenya protest violence against women and girls in Nairobi. [Fred Kagonye, Standard]  A special taskforce will be formed to streamline the boda boda sector in the country, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said.  Responding to public outrage over an incident in which a female motorist was attacked by boda boda operators on Nairobi’s Wangari Maathai Road, Matiang’i said he will ensure everyone involved in the assault gets arrested.  “Nothing short of a very ruthless and radical reorganisation of the boda boda sector is going to solve this [menace],” the CS said on Tuesday, March 8.  Promising to act on proposals to regulate the sector, Matiang’i said the impunity witnessed in the motorcycle industry will no longer be tolerated. Reiterating his Interior counterpart’s sentiments, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said all organs of government will work together to ensure the roll-out of reforms in the sector.  “Anyone who will not comply will be dealt with,” he noted.  The Office of the Inspector-General of Police has also begun a crackdown on boda boda operators.  Earlier, Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris condemned the Wangari Maathai Road incident.  Passaris joined several people, led by the Federation of Women Lawyers-Kenya (FIDA-Kenya), in protesting against the lawlessness by motorcycle riders.  Passaris said the Wangari Maathai Road assault suspects ought to be ashamed over the actions caught in the viral video.  “What the men did to her (victim), shows they are totally uncultured, lack character and have no respect,” the Woman Representative said.  She urged the government to swiftly act on the matter and bring all the culprits to book.  “I want them paraded. They need to be locked up for a long time so that they can serve as an example [to others intending to engage in such habits],” Passaris said.  The lawmaker said it shouldn’t take arrests and prosecutions for the government to act on the boda boda menace and impunity on Kenyan roads.  Police spokesperson Bruno Shioso on Monday acknowledged that there’s lawlessness among a section of motorcycle riders, promising to act on it.  “Most of the riders end up on the road without following the rule of law. We are doing operations, especially in urban areas to restore sanity on the roads,” Shioso said during an interview on Citizen Television.  He, however, advised motorists against speeding off in the case of a road accident, as has been suggested on social media.  “This is a very grey area because now you have to make a balance between your safety and following the law, but I advise that you first analyse your situation and do what you think is best for your safety,” he said.  Several groups, led by FIDA-Kenya, protest violence against women and girls in Nairobi. [Fred Kagonye, Standard]  Several women-affiliated groups on Tuesday morning protested the violence against women and girls in public and private spaces, holding a procession across Nairobi’s Central Business District (CBD).  So far, authorities have arrested 32 suspects and impounded five motorcycles linked to the attack on the motorist.  "Operations continue as we appeal for more information from the public," police said.  By Patrick Vidija | 13 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 day ago By George Njunge | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago