Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria during the UDA National Delegates Conference (NDC) at Kasarani Sports Complex, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Gatundu South Member of Parliament (MP) Moses Kuria is expected to appear before the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) on Wednesday, March 30.  Kuria will appear before the Electoral Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee to answer to utterances he made at a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) National Delegates Conference (NDC), claiming that a team of politicians rigged the 2017 poll results in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta.   “You are required to present yourself at the Commission’s boardroom for examination over utterances you made at UDA party NDC at Kasarani on March 15,” IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati said.  The lawmaker made the remarks at a UDA NDC claiming that he and other political benefactors helped Uhuru win the 2017 election. “There are those saying Mt Kenya region votes will be divided. Honorable Waiguru, Rigathi, Kimani Wamatangi, Muthomi Njuki, Mithika Linturi, Alice Wahome, Faith Gitau...we made Uhuru win the election and we are the ones who stole for him,” he claimed.   “The whole team that placed Uhuru at the top is here.”  IEBC had on March 16 said it would investigate the Chama Cha Kazi party leader’s claims, terming his utterances offensive.  “We heard what we said but he has his right to defend himself. We need to collect evidence before summoning him to explain himself,” Chebukati said.  The agency had last month also summoned Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege over similar utterances.  The politician came under fire following her remarks during an Azimio la Umoja tour, suggesting that Jubilee rigged the 2017 polls.  Chege claimed that the poll results in 2017 were stolen and that a similar scenario could be duplicated in the August General Election.  By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 9 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 10 hours ago