Jimi Wanjigi's daughter, Wambui Wanjigi. [Courtesy]  Presidential aspirant Jimi Wanjigi's daughter wowed a crowd with her address on Monday, during the Safina Party National Delegation Conference (NDC) held at Bomas of Kenya.  Wambui Wanjigi, who was accorded the opportunity to invite her father to the podium, rallied Kenyans to support his presidential bid ahead of the August 9, polls.     "One of the greatest lessons my father taught me and my brother is to always believe in our dreams and pursue them with passion. A lesson I see him achieving each day.  "My father's dedication not only to our family but to his work is one of the qualities which I admire him for. He has been my role model, teacher and best friend," she began.  According to Wambui, Kenyans would benefit from her father's leadership and wisdom if he clinched the top seat in August.  "I wish you well dad as you take this mantle and quest to be the fifth president of Kenya. It is my hope that as you are ascending to office you serve the people in true affirmation of God's will for man and woman. Every person deserves a decent life and to live in dignity," she said.  Wanjigi has since been endorsed as the Safina Party Presidential candidate.  Jimi Wanjigi was endorsed as Safina Presidential candidate on Monday. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  In his speech, he promised to bridge economic inequalities as well social immobilities by revolutionising the leadership in the Country.  "We have had a national decline of our nation. The tools of yesterday cannot meet the needs of today and tomorrow...We need a breath of fresh air of progress and determined dedication in our motherland.  "There is no point in having a Country of 1% billionaires and 99% poor people," Wanjigi said.  Deputy President William Ruto, who was a chief guest at the NDC, said he honoured the invite because United Democratic Alliance (UDA) and Safina Party shared common interests for the economy.  "We believe changing the economy to create a credit for millions of young people is not about leaders but about the people," Ruto said.  By Josphat Thiongó | 9 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 13 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 14 hours ago