Former Jubilee Secretary-General Mr Raphael Tuju [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Talks of plans to have former Jubilee Secretary-General Mr Raphael Tuju and former State House Chief of Staff Mr Nzioka Waita have a joint ticket for Nairobi governor’s seat have emerged.  This even after Mr Raila Odinga’s ODM party on Friday cleared Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi as the sole aspirant for Nairobi governorship, and was set to give him the certificate next week.  If true, Mr Tuju and Mr Waita’s entry into the contest will complicate matters for the coalition that had already split into two groups; one led by Mr Wanyonyi and ODM Secretary General Mr Edwin Sifuna, who is vying for Senate, Woman Representative Ms Esther Passaris and former Dagoretti South MP Mr Dennis Waweru on one hand. On the other is Nominated MP Mr Maina Kamanda, who eyeing the Senator seat, while Nominated MP Ms Beatrice Kwamboka wants to dislodge Ms Passaris.   Incumbent Governor Ms Anne Kananu, businessman and president of Kenya Chamber of Commerce and Industries Mr Richard Ngatia and businesswoman Ms Agnes Kagure have also shown interest in the seat under the President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Odinga-led coalition.  Sources say Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga are wary of the existing infighting and the ratings of governorship seats from Azimio. “They are determined to win Nairobi governor seat and any division in the county team is injurious to them. It is the reason they are thinking outside the box to solve the political equation,” a source said.  Ms Margaret Wanjiru and Nairobi Senator Mr Johnson Sakaja are eyeing the governor’s seat on Kenya Kwanza.    The source said Mr Tuju enjoyed wide acceptance in the political arena. Mr Kenyatta has previously urged Mr Odinga to give political space for Tuju if he decides to vie for a seat in Rarieda or Siaya County.  Even as Mr Tuju and Mr Waita played down the allegations of their possible ticket, the source said the matter had been discussed at a senior level of Azimio, and a political evaluation done, confirming that the ticket would deliver victory in the August contest.  In a tweet this week, Mr Waita, who has hit the campaign trail for Machakos Governor bid on Chama Cha Uzalendo ticket, said: “It appears my opponents are in full panic mode... having seen the latest Machakos governor race polls for themselves and how their candidate’s lead has been decimated by a first timer... in 5/8 sub-counties to a single digit margin.”    Mr Tuju said it was too early to comment on his next move, but did not dismiss talks of a joint ticket with Mr Waita. “When the right time comes we will communicate,” said Mr Tuju.      By Josphat Thiong’o | 55 minutes ago By Victor Nzuma | 55 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 55 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 55 minutes ago