Nairobi County inspectorate department has this morning intensified crackdown on rogue boda boda operators.  The crackdown aims at weeding out the criminal elements with the sector that has sparked public outrage.  The crackdown continues even as Interior CS Fred Matiangi was meeting officials of the boda boda associations at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre-KICC.    In the meeting, it has been resolved that all boda boda operators undergo a fresh registration exercise which will be free of charge. Within 60 days, new smart driving licenses will be issued to those who will have registered for easy identification.  City Hall inspection officers crackdown on rogue boda bodas. [Dennish Ochieng, Standard]  Matiangi directed the Nairobi County Commissioner Kangethe Thuku to be convening a monthly meeting with the associations amid efforts to iron out pending issues and cleanse the bad blood between police and boda boda operators.  “This government does recognize the revenue generated by the sector and will not undermine that effort but we are making these changes so that we can streamline the systems adhere to code of conduct,” said Matiangi.  City Hall inspection officers crackdown on rogue boda boda operators. [Dennish Ochieng, Standard]  He said President Uhuru Kenyatta issued the orders because the international community had been outraged.  The CS said they have directed the police to be as humane as possible during the crackdown.  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i when he met officials of boda boda associations at KICC. [Samson Wire, Standard]  Matiangi was accompanied by PS Karanja Kibicho, ICT CS Joe Mucheru, IG Police Hillary Mutyambai, NTSA and senior Traffic police officials.  On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said he had directed a nationwide crackdown following a viral video where boda boda operators assaulted a female motorist on forest road.  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i when he addressed officials of boda boda association at KICC. [Samson Wire, Standard]  “I must, at this stage, refer to what was referred to here, because, without a doubt that (the now-viral boda boda harassment video) was a very disheartening thing to see, and it is only one of the others that have occurred across this country, we must be honest.  “I have given instructions, and I have ordered a crackdown on all boda boda operators starting here in Nairobi and moving across the country,” Uhuru said.  Boda boda association officials take a photo with Interior CS Fred Matiang'i during a meeting at KICC. [Samson Wire, Standard]  Uhuru warned politicians against claiming the Government was targeting low-income business people with the new directive.  Last month police in Nairobi launched an operation targeting unruly boda boda riders in the city.  Boda boda association officials during a meeting at KICC. [Samson Wire, Standard]  This comes on the back of new statistics indicating that boda boda riders are responsible for many accident-related deaths and injuries reported in the city.  Since January, 116 people have died in accidents in Nairobi, with 16 of these deaths involving boda boda riders, and eight recorded among pillion passengers.  Nairobi Traffic Police Commandant Joshua Omukata said 89 of the deaths have been registered among pedestrians, while three have been among cyclists.  Boda boda association officials during a meeting at KICC. [Samson Wire, Standard]  Meanwhile, Senators have summoned Matiangi and Mutyambai over the nationwide crackdown.  The House wants Dr Matiang’i to spell out the parameters to be used by the law enforces in implementing the declared crackdown.  The lawmakers said the government has to come up with a proper means of eliminating rogue operators without condemning the entire sector.  By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 1 day ago