Emotions ran high as a woman who was shot 16 times by her police husband, who later died by suicide, was laid to rest in Nyamira County.  A sombre mood engulfed Ntana Village in Bomwagamo, North Mugirango where the late Mourine Moraa Kiriago, 27, was interred.  Mourners could not hold back tears as the family paraded Moraa's two kids, one aged one and four years old.  The funeral was presided over by the local Seventh-Day Adventist Church which oversaw an impromptu Harambee in aid of the orphaned children.  The family revealed that before the incident, Moraa’s husband had finished processing a loan which, according to her brother Enock Magara, the young family was yet to expend. "The day the incident happened was good for the couple and they had even called back home over pending arrangements of dowry payment. We are yet to establish any facts about the loan," Magara said.  Politicians who attended the funeral urged the government to consider the welfare of the young children by employing one of the uncles whose graduation from Maseno University, the couple had planned to attend.  Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo, North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko, former Kisumu County Education Director who is now seeking North Mugirango Parliamentary seat Isaac Atebe were among the leaders who condoled with the family.  Nyaribo asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to help the family raise the children.  "We know the Interior ministry has arrangements for families caught up in situations like this one. We are only lucky that we have a CS who is able and can do something serious to this family," Nyaribo said.  Nyamoko on his part said he will fast-track the developments in the investigations over the murder and suicide incident.  "It is a matter of grave concern that a police officer responsible over firearms could allow an officer on off duty to go home with a gun. And not just a small gun: an AK47. Someone has to be held responsible over the deaths," Nyamoko said.  Moraa was killed on the night of February 19 after the husband sprayed her with 16 bullets before shooting himself with another single shot.  Songwae@Standardmedia.co.ke     By James Omoro | 3 hours ago By Mark Oloo | 3 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 3 hours ago By Nicholas Mburu and Olivia Odhiambo | 11 hours ago