Deputy President William Ruto in Garsen, Tana River County, March 2022. [DPPS]  Coast-based Kadu Asili has joined Deputy President William Ruto's bandwagon ahead of the August elections.  Party chairman Kombora Korokoro, who spoke after the outfit's officials met United Democratic Alliance (UDA) presidential candidate William Ruto at his Karen home in Nairobi, said they will go all out to popularise the DP against his political nemesis Raila Odinga, the presidential candidate of Azimio La Umoja coalition that has President Uhuru Kenyatta on board.  "We are ready to take William Ruto's campaigns the grassroots. We shall traverse the entire Coast region to ensure Ruto gets the most votes," said Kombora who was flanked by Kadu Asili party leader Emmanuel Nzai and a group of Mijikenda elders.   Kombora and Nzai said the DP has promised coastal communities a place in his government if he wins. "He will also give a special focus on development in our region," Kombora said.  After the meeting was also attended by Amidzi Council of Elders chairman Mwalimu Rasi, Nzai announced he had shelved his ambition for the Kilifi governorship seat and had agreed to be the running mate of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa who hopes to be the county's next governor.  The DP welcomed the move by Kadu Asili and the elders to join his camp saying their backing will ensure UDA wins all the seats in Kilifi.  Consequently, Ruto asked UDA chairman Johnson Muthama to initiate negotiations with Kadu Asili and the Amidzi Council of Elders for a binding agreement.  “My chairman will talk to Kadu Asili and Amidzi team to make this engagement official,” Ruto said.  Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, who was also present, noted that the region stands to benefit from a Ruto presidency.  Nzai also serves as the leader of Ukombozi wa Majimbo Coalition which comprises Umoja Summit Party of Kenya, Kadu Asili, and Shirikisho Party of Kenya.  But it is not clear if Umoja Summit Party of Kenya and Shirikisho Party of Kenya were part of the talks. This is after Umoja Summit Party unveiled its presidential candidate, Walter Mong’are alias Nyambane, last week.  Nyambane was later anointed by a group of Mijikenda Kaya elders at Magarini in Kilifi County as their preferred candidate for Kenya's top office.  Others in the Kilifi governor's race are George Kithi of Pamoja African Alliance,  former Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro of ODM, are County Assembly Speaker Jimmy Kahindi (ODM), Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi (ODM), and former Kenya's High Commissioner to Tanzania Dan Kazungu of ODM.  By Kamau Ngotho | 55 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 55 minutes ago By Robert Amalemba | 55 minutes ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago