Deputy President William Ruto has expressed optimism that the August 9 elections will be free and fair.  Speaking on Tuesday at Loyola University, Maryland, in the US, Dr Ruto said attempts by State to rig elections would be defeated because Kenya’s Constitution is progressive and its democracy robust.  He accused the government of manipulating the criminal justice system to intimidate politicians and the citizens.  “The country is deep in discussion about our democracy, the threats to our democracy and the freedom of choice — that people can choose freely without blackmail, intimidation and threats,” Ruto said. “Kenyans have stood against the threats… I have gone all out to protect and speak against any attempt to straitjacket people to predetermined outcomes. I am confident that the people of Kenya will prevail,” the DP added.  His remarks offer a glimpse into his messaging to US and UK delegations in his 10-day tour of both nations. While he insists that he does not believe that the elections will be rigged, his insistence on the subject suggests that he harbours such concerns, although he has not offered any evidence to show the State’s hand in “choreographing” the election.  The DP has made the rigging claims more than once during his campaigns. The matter has prompted foreign envoys to seek assurances from the government that the elections will be free and fair.  Ruto told the Maryland forum that he would meet US security officials today, stating his “mission” as discussing “Kenya’s future”.    His delegation includes his wife Rachel Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu) and economist David Ndii.  Besides discussions on Kenya’s democracy, Ruto said the economy had been run down. “There is a feeling that our economy has been captured, cartel-led and brokered, and has become extortionist. There is a need to democratise the economy and make it inclusive,” Ruto said, calling on international actors to seek business opportunities in Kenya.  “We are looking forward to partnership of friends and people of goodwill, and America has always been a partner and a friend, and has stood with us in good and bad times. Together with other members of the international community, we are looking forward to working together towards that endeavour,” said Ruto.  He lauded the Jubilee administration for its “successes” in the first term, saying they had set the foundation for future transformation. The DP spoke at Loyola University’s Karson Institute for Race, Peace and Social Justice, where he also backed Kenya’s criticism against racism that Africans fleeing war-torn Ukraine have faced.  “Even in a situation of war, it is mind-boggling that people can still have space to practise racism,” he said.  Ruto’s audience had significant representation from the clergy, a group he hopes will drive him to the presidency.  He was put to task over his case at the International Criminal Court, which had collapsed amid claims of witness bribery and intimidation.  “The claims of bribery and intimidation were on all sides. There were those who accused the prosecution of bribery and intimidation. There were those who accused the defence. The positive side of this is that we were able to weather the storm as a nation,” Ruto said.  By Eric Abuga | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 hour ago By Raila Odinga | 1 hour ago