Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko in his private Nairobi office. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko responded furiously to an American travel ban to the US, saying political machinations against him had now gone international and roped in the superpower.  Earlier in the day, the US government issued a public statement indicting the ex-governor, and his family members over alleged involvement in ‘significant corruption’.  The ban affects Sonko, his wife Primrose Mbuvi, daughters Saumu Mbuvi and Salma Mbuvi and and another member of the family described as “Sonko’s minor child.” The bans were issued under Section 7031(c) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act.  The Counsellor for Diplomacy at the US Embassy in Nairobi, Eric Watnik, said the US believes that Sonko had, through kickbacks and contracts, embezzled public funds in his time as the governor of the country’s seat of power. Sonko has never been convicted of corruption in Kenyan courts. He was, however, impeached by the Senate in December 2020 over abuse of office charges. He challenged the impeachment at the High Court and the Court of Appeal, losing in both instances.  He has since indicated that he will challenge the impeachment at the Supreme Court. And on Monday, Sonko announced that he would be reclaiming his seat in the August General Election.    “I’ve not been convicted on any corruption-related charges because the cases are still pending in court awaiting judgement. There are only two governors who have been charged in a court of law for giving tenders to their wives and kids but not me,” he said.  He claimed none of his family members were awarded tenders by the county when he was in office, and challenged the US Embassy to shed more light on the ban. “Why is this coming out a day after I said that I’ll be defending my seat in August? Why are the biggest known thieves of Covid-19 and Kemsa being spared and they are the ones who have commited the biggest corruption scandals in the country?”  But by this time, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken had signed immigration documents stopping the five from getting visas to the US. The US government claimed it had obtained ‘credible information’ that the former Nairobi County boss was involved in graft, including bribery, irregular awarding of tenders, and undermining the rule of law.  The State Department in Washington, however, did not reveal how much Sonko allegedly obtained through graft. “Corruption erodes public trust in government,” said the US in a statement released yesterday afternoon.  On whether the US had shared the same information with Kenya’s intelligence and relevant authorities, the State Department said: “We don’t discuss matters about our diplomatic relations publicly.”  On whether the former governor can appeal against the decision, Watnik said: “He’ll have to contact lawyers in the US to explore the legal avenues for his appeal. There must be a provision that allows one to challenge such a decision.”  By Daniel Wesangula  | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Daniel Wesangula  | 4 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago