Kenya Kwaza leaders lead by Ford Kenya Leader Moses Wetang'ula (center) during a public rally in Ganda, Kilifi County after a rally in Lunga Lunga, Kwale County. [Robert Menza, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza marched across the Coast this week without its captain, Deputy President William Ruto, sending signals that it could pose a threat to the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), which has dominated the region for the last 15 years.  The team took advantage of the International Women’s Day gatherings on Tuesday to address rallies in Lunga Lunga sub-County in Kwale before flying to Malindi in Kilifi.  Ruto’s allies later mounted vigorous campaigns in Tana River and Mombasa counties as they exuded confidence that they will win key seats for Ruto in Coast.   Ruto was away to the US and UK. Senators Moses Wetang'ula and Kithure Kindiki led the local politicians in the spirited campaigns never seen previously during Ruto's absence. They were backed by United Democratic Alliance (UDA) chair Johnstone Muthama.  In Kwale, all four MPs - Khatib Mwashetani of Lunga Lunga, Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga) and Feisal Bader of Msambweni - were in the Kenya Kwanza team.  Wetang'ula, Kindiki and Muthama said that with Governor Salim Mvurya and the four legislators in their fold, they will win many seats including the governor's through Kwale deputy governor Fatuma Achani, who was the host in Lunga Lunga.  Others in the Coast campaigns were Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, who is vying for Kilifi governor seat, Nyali MP Mohamed Ali and former senator for Mombasa and governor aspirant Hassan Omar.    “With the prevailing political situation in Kwale, I am confident that UDA will have the first female governor in Coast through Ms Achani,” Muthama said.  Governor Mvurya has been named as the coordinator of the Kenya Kwanza campaigns in Coast. He was in Ruto’s delegation to the US and UK.  Wetang'ula said Kenya Kwanza will tackle historical injustices on land, settle thousands of squatters and also ensure communities get maximum returns from mining activities.  “Kenya Kwanza is going to address historical injustices on land and revive all economic sectors in the Coast region,” Wetangula said.  "We are going to sit down with Mvurya at the national negotiation table and plan for the Coast economy."  Productive nation  The Ford Kenya leader said Kenya Kwanza will ensure all Kenyans are given National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) cards for free to ensure a healthy and productive nation.  Kenya Kwanza pledged to stop foreign trawlers from stealing fish in Kenyan waters and promote the blue economy and thereby create jobs.  Wetang'ula noted that Kenya Kwanza would also revive cashew nuts and coconut processing plants in the region and empower farmers.  The team said Ruto will address extra-judicial killings and forced disappearances in the Coast and other parts of the country, because it was against human rights.  Wetang'ula also said Kenya Kwanza is committed to battling drug lords and driving them out of Coast if Ruto takes power.  He pledged that Ruto would give women key leadership positions and ensure that one of their own ascends to the presidency like in Tanzania.  Prof Kindiki said Ruto will give title deeds to Coast residents claiming the issue has been politicised by previous administrations including Jubilee, leading to high numbers of squatters in the region.  “Many residents of the Coast region have no title deeds due to lack of political will to resolve the squatter problem.  "Ruto is going to bring these title deeds to Coast,” he said.  He added that Ruto will ensure that port operations are returned to Mombasa.  “We are going to take the port services back to Mombasa and restore the Coast economy,” Prof Kindiki said.  He claimed the country’s economy was in the ICU and prices of essential commodities were high because of uncontrolled government borrowing.  “Our bottom up economic model is at the centre of reviving the national economy which is in the ICU.  "Prices are high and Kenyans are suffering because of uncontrolled government borrowing,” he said.  Historical land injustices  Nyali MP Ali said the port operations should be returned to Mombasa and Container Freight Stations (CFSs) reopened to offer employment to local residents.  “We want the CFSs to open up business opportunities and create jobs for Coast youth,” Ali said.  Mwashetani claimed the Coast economy was on the verge of collapse because cargo was being hauled from the port by SGR trains to be processed in Nairobi and Naivasha.  Jumwa said the Jubilee administration has failed to address historical land injustices particularly after President Kenyatta had a handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga in March 2018.  “Uhuru and Raila have no interest in solving land problems at the Coast.  "It is Ruto who will settle squatters in this region,” she said.  Wetang'ula said that Ruto was branded a lone ranger before he and Mudavadi joined him and they have since gained numbers in Western, Rift Valley and Central Kenya.  “They had branded Ruto a lone ranger but not any more after Mudavadi and I joined him. We have tightened our grip in most regions and we are sure of winning this election.  "We are going to beat Raila in the first round by 70 percent and ensure he does not challenge the election in court, lead street demonstrations or swear himself in as president,” he said.  He added: “Raila is being fronted by Uhuru as a project. Uhuru himself was  once a political project of the president but was defeated by the people. It appears he has not learnt a lesson from what happened to him."  By The Coversation and Reuters | 16 seconds ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 16 seconds ago By Oscar Obonyo | 16 seconds ago By Biketi Kikechi | 16 seconds ago