Kenya Kwanza leaders at a Church service at the Full Gospel Churches of Kenya, Gachororo Township, Juja, Kiambu County. [Source: William Ruto, Twitter]  Leaders allied to the Kenya Kwanza alliance have trained their guns on Saturday's Azimio la Umoja coalition agreement.  This comes a day after more than 20 political parties signed and agreed to join the Azimio la Umoja political formation, unveiling Raila Odinga as its presidential candidate.  During today's rally at Thika Stadium, the leaders allied to the Deputy President William Ruto criticised the Head of State for publicly throwing his weight behind Raila Odinga.  Talks of political blackmail, dishonesty and disloyalty dominated the speeches. “Uhuru Kenyatta must apologise to Kenyans. When this handshake and BBI started I warned and asked the president its agenda. He said it was aimed at uniting Kenyans. I then asked if it was aimed at unity why did he chase his Deputy on his arrival. The president said he will support Ruto in 2022,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen disclosed.  “Yesterday he said in front of the whole country that they had been planning for four years. I want to challenge the president to publicly promise to concede if his project loses in the upcoming election,” he added.    Kandara MP Alice Wahome said, “The president has embarrassed us by joining the opposition, it’s a shame. Now we tell him we will vote for Ruto because Kenya is a democracy. The president has done the biggest assault on the constitution by disobeying over 30 court orders. We have the right to choose our leaders,”  “I want to thank the president for his honesty yesterday. It is now clear that handshake was for 2022 politics,” Kikuyu MP  Kimani Ichungwah said.  Due to the suspended crackdown on rogue Boda Boda riders countrywide, the Kenya Kwanza-allied leaders blamed the state for allegedly frustrating the small businesses.  “The police should leave our young men in Boda Boda business alone and return all impounded motorbikes,” Wahome remarked amid scanty cheers from her supporters.  The crackdown on Boda Boda was announced by President Uhuru a day after a viral video of a woman being sexually assaulted by tens of Boda Boda riders emerged online. However, the operation was called off barely a week into the exercise.  The leaders have also pointed an accusing finger at the state for allegedly harassing businesses.  “The government has been frustrating our people. Just the other day they tried to frustrate Tabitha Karanja’s Keroche Breweries in Naivasha,” Ichung’wa said.  This was after Keroche Breweries hit headlines for the better part of last week pleading with Kenya Revenue Authority to give them a grace period after the taxman shut down its operations earlier in the year.  However, during a one on one interview last week, Keroche's boss admitted they had tax arrears and was asking for a grace period to repay. She also reiterated that the tax issues were purely a business war and not political.  Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka holds Azimio la Umoja flag bearer and ODM Party leader Raila Odinga's hand as he affirmed his endorsement for Raila to contest for the presidency. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  On Saturday, Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka almost threw a spanner into the works of ODM leader Raila Odinga's crowning as the Azimio-One Kenya Alliance presidential ticket bearer after hours of talks that bore no fruits.  Sources indicated that the two held talks at Karen, Serena Hotel and Statehouse for about six hours.  The Azimio event that was scheduled to start at 8 am at the historic KICC could not pick until well past 2 pm when Kalonzo capitulated under the combined weight of Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Reports indicated that the signing was delayed for hours before Uhuru brokered a deal between Raila and Kalonzo.  Kalonzo has issued several demands for OKA to join Azimio and support Raila for the presidency a third consecutive time.  By The Coversation and Reuters | 14 seconds ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 14 seconds ago By Oscar Obonyo | 14 seconds ago By Biketi Kikechi | 14 seconds ago