Wiper Leader Hon Kalonzo Musyoka when he hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta and KANU chairman Gideon Moi at his Karen Home. [Dennis Kavisu]  Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta and Senator Gideon Moi at his Karen home on the back of simmering suspicions on his deal with Azimio la Umoja.  During the five-hour meeting, the trio are said to have held lengthy deliberations on the current political situation. There were assurances from President Kenyatta that a separate political understanding between himself, Kalonzo and Raila a week ago at State House would be honoured, should Raila win the presidency.    “The leaders’ discussion centred on the prevailing political situation with the three affirming their full commitment and support to the candidature of Hon Raila Odinga of the Azimio-One Kenya alliance,” a source told The Sunday Standard. The dinner came one week after the signing of the Azimio-One Kenya coalition at Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi between OKA, Azimio, Jubilee and over 20 other political parties and a subsequent electrifying political rally at Jacaranda grounds in Embakasi. The meeting was triggered by an earlier radio interview on Musyi FM, where Kalonzo not only gave snippets to the understanding between the three at State House.  Kalonzo had said he was now “more alert than before”, given that he had picked a lot of continental experience, including the political fallout in Congo DRC between President Tshesekedi and former President Joseph Kabila.  “Does that sound familiar in Kenya? Immediately he obtained stability, he rode on instruments of power to buy off people… Once someone is enthroned the 5th, if it is not Kalonzo Musyoka who fears God, they could change, so that people like President Uhuru may even require a one-month appointment to see them,” he said.  Kalonzo brought to the fore that they had reached an understanding that the trio would revisit the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) once Raila ascends to power. He also said Raila must respect the “three-legged stool” arrangement once in power, falling short of affirming he would deal with him politically.  “If he rejects the three-legged stool, what would you do with such person?”  Kalonzo admitted the pact between him and Raila began on a sour note but hoped all would be well. He said he was surprised to see the decors at Saturday’s KICC event reading “Azimio La Umoja” yet they had come to sign up to “Azimio-One Kenya”.  The Friday meeting also happened hours after Kalonzo received leaders and aspirants from North Eastern region, now seeking to vie under his party. Among them was Siyad Abdullahi, a health expert seeking Wajir governorship and a host of MCAs.  By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 1 hour ago By  Nzau Musau | 1 hour ago By Rev Edward Buri | 1 hour ago