Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi axed from Senate leadership. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Jubilee Party has kicked out Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi as the Majority Chief Whip in the Senate.  The Party’s Secretary-General Jeremiah Kioni, who is also the MP for Ndaragwa Constituency, said Wamatangi’s ouster follows his decision to decamp to United Democratic Alliance (UDA) Party, which is headed by Deputy President William Ruto.  Wamatangi joined the DP’s outfit during a Kenya Kwanza rally in Thika, Kiambu County on Sunday, March 13.  He said the voters in Kiambu had implored upon him to join UDA, claiming it was more popular than Jubilee in the county. Kioni says Wamatangi’s decision to join UDA has been interpreted as his resignation from the ruling party.  “Hon. Senator Paul Kimani Wamatangi immediately ceases to hold the office of Majority Chief Whip in the Senate,” said Kioni in the letter dated Thursday, March 17.  The Ndaragwa lawmaker said Jubilee’s National Management Committee ratified the Party’s decision to kick out Wamatangi.  If aggrieved, the Kiambu Senator has until the end of Thursday, March 17 to file an appeal against the decision.  This morning on Citizen TV breakfast show, Senator Wamatangi said he was ready for the consequences of his move to join UDA.  He affirmed that he was ready to face any disciplinary action against him by the Jubilee Party after his defection.  “This morning, I received a text inviting me to State House and was very clear that all elected leaders from the Mt Kenya region are invited. I know I am not the agenda but if my de-whipping comes, I am ready for it,” said Wamatangi.  He added, “I have never been beholden to any position and if they feel it is my time to go so be it.”  Wamatangi was appointed as the Majority Chief Whip in the Senate on February 9, 2021, after the then-holder, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, was ousted for warming up to Deputy President William Ruto’s political camp.  Kang’ata had held the post for nine months following the ejection of his predecessor, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, who was removed from the position on May 12, 2020.  By Jacob Ng'etich | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 7 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 7 hours ago