A prison warder at the entrance of the Shimo La Tewa Maximum prison in Mombasa. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  The family of a secondary school teacher who was allegedly abducted after his release from the Shimo la Tewa Prison wants the State to clear the air over the matter.  Mr Amani Mohamed Mwafujo’s sister MS Ramla Mwafujo yesterday said they were travelling on the Mombasa-Malindi road on Monday when 10 armed men hijacked him.  “I was seated in a matatu with my brother heading to Likoni Ferry when a white Land Cruiser overtook and blocked us,” said Ms Ramla.  She said the men pulled his brother from the matatu and spend off towards Mombasa town. Kisauni OCPD Mr Juma Londo said he was not aware of the incident, but Mr Mohamed’s brother Mr Hemed Mwafujo confirmed they reported the matter at the Bamburi Police Station.  Mr Mohamed was on Thursday acquitted of terror charges by a court sitting in Kwale due to lack of evidence.    He was first arrested on October 24, 2016, at a school in the county where he was teaching History and Kiswahili.  According to the sister, he was charged with 10 terror-related charges.  Despite having been under trial for six years, the sister said the prosecution only called two witnesses.  “I believe the abductors are policemen because of the bold manner in which they carried the operation,” said Ms Ramla. She recalls how her efforts to have the brother released from the prison on Friday and Saturday flopped.  “My brother was acquitted on Thursday. The following day I got a release order from Kwale Law Courts and travelled to Shimo la Tewa in Mombasa,” said Ms Rahma.  But she was told to go back on Saturday. “They told me to go back on Monday,” she said.  Muslim Human Rights (Muhuri) pointed an accusing finger at the Anti-Terror Police unit.   “I suspect ATPU squad is behind the hijacking despite their denial,” said Mr Francis Auma, a Muhuri official. “We hope the abductors will spare him.”       By Collins Kweyu | 8 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 12 hours ago By Tobias Chanji | 16 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 19 hours ago