Professor Makau Mutua [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC) chair Professor Makau Mutua is now the Spokesperson of the Raila Odinga 2022 presidential campaign team, as well as head of its think tank.  The former Premier made the announcement on his Twitter, congratulating the professor on his appointment:  “Congratulations Makau Mutua,” tweeted Raila, accompanied by a statement from his Campaign Secretariat confirming the appointment.   Congratulations @makaumutua. pic.twitter.com/M59e7iCyp9 Last week, the professor amplified his support for Raila during a talk show on Spice FM, referring to the ODM leader as ‘Mandela’.  Mutua believes Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga is the best fit to lead this country.  He said Raila has demonstrated love for the country in the past and still does through his public and private actions.  “Difficult moments call for people have been tried and tested, and who have delivered. People who have stood in the breach for the country and who have served selflessly and who do not seek something for themselves,” said Mutua.  “People who in their public and private lives demonstrate a love for the country. I know Raila has tried to move this country forward. Mr Odinga is our Mandela,” he added.  Mutua has continually insisted he sees no other competitor for Raila in the upcoming General Election, due to the fact the former Premier’s Handshake with President Uhuru induced a feeling of peace.  “Raila has walked the talk. Sacrifice is very important. Raila loves people more than he loves himself. He produced (delivered) as prime minister. Some of the ideas that are being implemented today started with him, including some steps to cut corruption,” he said.  He said Raila was responsible for realising the walk towards freedom, adding some of the State Projects under the current regime were ideas started by him, including some steps to eliminate corruption.  “Raila led us to the 2010 constitution. He led the country to get its most-effective President, Mr Kibaki when he said Kibaki Tosha. Part of the peace that we enjoyed today is because of the Handshake.”  Mutua said the Raila-Uhuru handshake was good for the country, considering the country had been fractured along ethnic lines for a long time.  “These two individuals have historical significance. It’s always a good thing when people on opposite ends of the scale come together for the sake of the country.  We live in a country fractured along ethnic lines. One of the biggest fault lines is between the Luo and Kikuyu. When those two communities work together, good things happen,” said Prof Mutua.  Prof Mutua noted the Kenyan electorate was broken and did not make the right choices in the past. He urged voters to always look at an aspirant’s political history before electing them into office. He said most of the problems we have now are because we elected people with tainted records.  “Sometimes the electorate does not vote based upon the desirable qualities partly because of several issues: Ethnicity and bias for example. Always look at what people have done for the country objectively. Look at the leading candidates and the party platforms being advanced. Does this person want to create a country of empathy? Do they want to fight corruption?” wondered Prof Mutua.  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Mercy Kahenda | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 10 hours ago