Cabinet Secretary for Tourism and Wildlife Najib Balala (R) hands over a gift to Film Star Edward Norton (L) after the unveiling as Magical Kenya Tembo Naming Festival global Ambassador. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Award-winning American actor and filmmaker Edward Norton has been named Magical Kenya Tembo Naming Festival ambassador.  Norton, famed for his role as Hulk in the 2008 film The Incredible Hulk, will engage his networks with ideas on biodiversity conservation.  “We need younger people to adapt to the principles of sustainability,” Norton said.  He added: “Any kind of outreach I can do as a filmmaker gives me the opportunity to engage wider on conservation.” Norton is also a UN Goodwill Ambassador for biodiversity.  Wildlife and Tourism CS Najib Balala said the actor’s role will help explore innovative ideas in conservation besides fundraising for elephants.    “We will work together not only on fundraising but also engaging on innovative ideas like crowdfunding,” Balala said.  Kenya hosts an estimated 10 per cent of the world’s elephant population. By 2020, it boasted a population of 34,125 elephants.  The African Savannah elephants are currently listed as endangered on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.   Over the years, elephant conservation has faced challenges stemming from declining habitat, poaching, and human-wildlife conflicts.  Climate change has also affected the conservation of the species, coupled with limited resources.  The population growth is attributed to decreased cases of poaching. Elephant poaching reduced from a high of 384 cases in 2012 when poaching was at its peak to a record low of 11 in 2020.  Naming festival  The introduction of the Magical Kenya Tembo Naming Festival is part of plans to champion elephant conservation by offering individuals and organisations an opportunity to play a role.  This year’s event will be held at Amboseli National Park on October 7 and 8. The objective is to secure a future for elephant habitats.  The Amboseli ecosystem hosts close to 2,000 elephants. In 2020 alone, 236 calves were born within the national park.  In 2021, the ceremony offered individuals and organisations a chance to name selected elephants.     By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 8 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 8 hours ago