A section impounded motorbikes (boda boda) at the Central Police station, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina,Standard]  Sixteen boda boda operators arrested in connection with an assault of a female foreign diplomat will remain in custody for another 20 days.  This is after the police were allowed by the court to detain the suspects as they complete investigations before pressing charges.  When the suspects were arraigned in court on Wednesday, investigating officer Lyvonne Mwanzia based at Gigiri Police Station asked the court to grant her 20 days to complete her probe.   James Mutinda Muema, Samuel Wafula Muswahili, Charles Omondi Were, Japheth Bosire Obano, Hassan Farah Forah, Wanjuki Lincon Kinyanjui, Joseph Ngugi Mbugu, Lenson Fundi Njururi, Harrison Maina Irungu and Benjamin Ngure Githimii are among the suspects.  Others are Igantius Shitekha Mufwolobo, Martin Kamau Maina, Shadrack Ambia Luyeku, Shadrack Kioko Nyamai, Cliff Gikobi Oyaro and Joseph Kibui Mukambi.  Milimani Senior Principal Magistrate Gilbert Shikwe said he was satisfied with the investigating officer's application.  The suspects will be held at the Gigiri Police Station.  The suspects were arrested three days ago for allegedly assaulting a Zimbabwean diplomat working with World Food Programme (WFP).  The alleged crime was committed on March 4, 2022, at the junction of Limuru and Wangari Mathaai roads in Nairobi.  Mwanzia told the court that police are treating the incident as robbery with violence.  A video of the diplomat being harassed went viral sparking social media outrage.  The diplomat is said to have hit one of the boda boda operators at the junction of Limuru Road and Wangari Mathaai Road.  The investigator told the court that in the video obtained, the diplomat is seen being beaten by a mob inside her car at the scene of the accident and her dress torn, an indication that she was sexually harassed.  She said, as a result, the diplomat had been robbed of an Iphone 6 valued at Sh130,000.  "Your honour, this case is of public interest and I, among other things, need to record statements from the victim, suspects and other witnesses," said the investigator.  In her application, the investigating officer said the additional days would be used to apprehend other suspects who are still at large.  She told the court that she wanted to get communication data from various communication service providers to enable her use it in her case.  Mwanzia told the court that she also needed more time to issue a P3 form as the diplomat was still traumatised and had not reported back to the station.  The additional time, she said, was to help her to obtain a CCTV footage along the road and at Bara Bara Tano stage where the operators ply their trade.  "Your honour, I also want to compile a police file and forward it to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for perusal and approval before the suspects are charged officially," said Mwanzia.  The prosecution told the court they supported the investigating officer’s application as the suspects had no fixed abode and were likely to run away from justice.  By Elvince Joshua | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 7 hours ago By John Muia | 10 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 12 hours ago