Elgeyo Marakwet West residents protest against banditry in Kerio Valley. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  Some lawmakers now want President Mr Uhuru Kenyatta to deploy military personnel to end killings in the volatile Kerio Valley.  The leaders drawn from North Rift said attacks were getting out of hand, and asked the President to intervene immediately to stop further loss of lives and livelihood.  Nandi Senator Mr Samson Cherargei said the area was descending into lawlessness despite outcry by locals for government protection.   “Unless the government wants to tell us that the bandits have become more powerful than the government itself,” said Mr Cherargei.  The Senator, who read a joint statement, said the attacks were bordering on an economic sabotage, as people were getting impoverished by losing their livestock.  He claimed some of the stolen animals were being sold in Nairobi in slaughter houses by well connect individuals.  Late last month, eight people, among them two minors, were killed in a fierce gun battle between herders from two warring communities in a grazing field in Chesetan near the border of Marakwet East and Tiaty sub-counties of Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties respectively.  Yesterday, the leaders also asked the President to form a Cabinet taskforce to deal with insecurity in the county. “The President should order immediate military action to flush out criminals in Kerio Valley,” he said.  “We no longer believe that this is an ordinary security issue. I think there could be some individuals causing insecurity in that region for their own benefits,” he added.  The area has continued to face attacks, with the latest at the weekend claiming two lives. Six other people were injured.  The leaders said the wave of insecurity had posed a major threat to candidates sitting their Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations.  They said the region risked being disenfranchise as the country prepares for the August 9 elections.  “You can imagine our children doing exams in that region, with the cloud of insecurity. Our children can no longer feel safe in that area,” said the senator.   By Nikko Tanui | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Christopher Kipsang | 3 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 3 hours ago