President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto hold the top most political offices in Kenya today. They are the current holders of the Presidency, which represents a symbol of unity, stability and progress, according to the 2010 Constitution.  In their wisdom, drafters of what is considered one of the most progressive constitutions in the world, the 2010 legislation put together positions of president and deputy. The pair are joined at the hip right from when seeking the people’s mandate until the end of their tenure of office. It does not matter what happens in between; they must complete the journey together.  In the past, the second in command would merely serve at the pleasure of the president and could be dismissed at any time. This was found destabilizing politically, hence the scenario today where the number two is considered the principal assistant to the president.  That said, Kenya is just a few five months to another transitional General Election. The stakes are high and the presidential contenders are on the ground seeking Kenyans’ votes for the August 9 ultimate contest. A new president and deputy president will be sworn into office for a period of five years. The pair must navigate political, economic and social aspirations of nearly 53 million Kenyans. It so happens that President Kenyatta and DP Ruto have differed sharply on who should take over power on August 9. The president has shown open preference for ODM leader Raila Odinga while the DP has presented himself for the top seat. Raila through Azimio la Umoja movement and Ruto under the Kenya Kwanza Alliance have emerged the front runners in the top race.  That is no cause for worry, but the recent public exchanges and counter claims between the president and his deputy do not inspire confidence among Kenyans even as they prepare for another presidential race. While on a tour of the US, Ruto claimed there was a plan by the government to manipulate the outcome of the presidential election. The president responded swiftly through State House spokesperson that the DP was out to tell Kenyans that the polls could be rigged.  While politicians must do what it takes to win voters to their side, they must not plant seeds of discord, despair and fear among the electorate. Uhuru and Ruto are entitled to support anyone for the top seat, but for posterity, they must substantiate their remarks. In a highly charged political environment, their words and actions will be followed closely by the public. They must not fan deep emotions likely to trigger violence as the elections beckon.  Indeed, the presidency should be at the forefront assuring Kenyans of a peaceful, smooth and flawless transition of power after the August 9 presidential contest. In any case, whoever wins State House, Kenya will remain and should be assured of progress and stability. The world is watching and so are adherents of democracy.      By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago