Boda Boda riders wait for customers in the CBD in Nairobi on Friday, March 18, 2022. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Lack of the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) PIN certificates and other crucial documents may hinder boda boda riders’ listing in the ongoing registration.  According to Murang’a County Commissioner Karuku Ngumo, most operators do not have the documents, and might therefore be forced out of business once the countrywide exercise is concluded.  Speaking on the first day of the registration at the Murang’a Huduma Centre, the administrator challenged the riders to acquire the documents.  “Take advantage of this exercise since the government has waived the registration fee. Acquire the needed documents and visit Huduma centres near you and get registered within the two months,” said Mr Ngumo. It is estimated that out of the 10,000 riders operating in the county, 5,000 do not have smart driving licenses.  The government, he said,  was interested in the unity of riders urging them to join Saccos so as to instill self-regulation mechanisms and weed out rogue riders.    The Chairman of Murang’a boda boda operators, Peter Mwangi asked members to take advantage of the exercise saying a majority of riders could not afford the amount needed to get smart driving licences.  In Nyeri, Mr Abednego Etyian, a director in the Infrastructure Department launched the programme. About 200 riders were registered.  He stressed the need for the riders to register themselves, saying the move will instill discipline on the roads.  “Let the riders in Nyeri and everywhere in the country be informed that anybody who will not participate in the exercise will not be allowed on our roads as we are keen on streamlining the transport sub-sector and promoting road safety and security for the operators and their customers,” he said.  Nyeri Riders Association Chairman Charles Ndegwa said operators welcomed the exercise as it will rid the business of criminals.  “We support the exercise and call upon our members to register themselves since the exercise will restore dignity to some of us who are genuine in this job,” he said.   By Peter Muiruri | 28 minutes ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 28 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 28 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 28 minutes ago