Interior PS Karanja Kibicho addressing the press at Uhuru Gardens during the 58th Jamhuri celebrations.[Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has denied claims by Kenya Kwanza that the National Government Administration Office (Ngao) has been instructed to campaign for Azimio la Umoja.  Speaking in Keruguoya, Kirinyaga County, Dr Kibicho said public servants cannot interfere with the mandate of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  Dr Kibicho instead accused Kenya Kwanza of 'sensing defeat and trying to intimidate other players including neutral State officers'. "This will not scare us from our work, but we want to tell them this is the time they should sell their agenda instead of mentioning my name more than 100 times in all their rallies in various parts of the country," said Dr Kibicho. "Even if they bring intimidation, I will not stop working for President Uhuru Kenyatta."  The PS spoke during the graduation of 91 football referees who have undergone Fifa training in readiness to officiate during the second phase of the Dr Karanja Kibicho Tournament that is expected to kick off on March 19. Dr Kibicho said he was a law-abiding citizen with no direct role in the IEBC's handling of the General Election. "They are just intimidating me to vote for them but I will vote for ODM leader Raila Odinga without fear or intimidation as it is perfectly within my democratic right."    He added, "The IEBC have not said they are unable to conduct elections. I will continue to provide any assistance the IEBC asks from the ministry."  Kibicho said that when he started the football talent search, some politicians claimed he wanted to 'snatch' their seats. "My main aim is to get my Kirinyaga people from the parasitic kind of life where they are wooed with handouts and are trained to be dependent on politicians. My main objective is to ensure that every Kirinyaga person has skills that they can use to earn a living."     By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 8 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 8 hours ago