Azimio la Umoja rally at Makongeni Ward Makadara on Saturday, on February 18, 2022. [Samson Wire Standard']  A section of lawmakers from the Azimio la Umoja coalition wants Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria investigated over alleged “ethnic profiling.”  Addressing rallies in constituencies in Nairobi County yesterday, the MPs said that Kuria’s remarks in Gatundu on Thursday, where he spoke against people who are not circumcised, amounted to ethnic profiling.  Embakasi East MP Babu Owino called on investigative agencies to look into Kuria’s utterances, which have been deemed to be targeted at ODM leader Raila Odinga.   “Kuria said that people who are not circumcised are not fit to lead. I want to urge the Inspector General of Police (Hillary Mutyambai) to arrest him because he is profiling communities by suggesting that they cannot lead the country,” Babu said.  The lawmakers said that the Kenya Kwanza Alliance should desist from insulting other leaders and instead sell their agenda to Kenyans.  “We will pray to the God who healed Kuria’s legs to also heal his tongue,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said.  Nominated MP Maina Kamanda said that their team would preach clean politics "of peace".  "We are starting a new kind of politics in Azimio that will unite all Kenyans," Kamanda said.  They also championed Raila’s candidacy, saying that he would solve Nairobi’s problems including water shortage.  “I bring you good news from the mountain. On August 9, we will queue up and vote for Raila,” Kieni MP Kanini Kega said.  The Azimio brigade toured constituencies in the larger Embakasi area before holding a rally in Makongeni in Makadara.  "Our only agenda is ensuring that Raila becomes the president," Makadara MP George Aladwa said at the Makongeni rally.  Raila has spent the past week in the UK, sharing his thoughts on the August 9 General Election.  He met UK government officials, the Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby and gave an address at the Chatham House thinktank.  Raila also met Kenyans living in the UK.  He was accompanied by governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Siaya Senator James Orengo, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Peter Kenneth.  The Azimio leaders have kept the fire of Raila's campaign burning and have held rallies in various parts of the city this past week, a continuation of Azimio's mega rally at the Jacaranda Grounds last week.  By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By  Nzau Musau | 1 hour ago