Deputy President William Ruto salutes his supporters while campaigning in Muranga. March 20, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  Deputy President Dr William Ruto has pledged to work closely with the church if elected President.  Quoting Bible verses to show he is a dependable supporter and painting his rivals as anti-religion, Dr Ruto pleaded with the church to help him win in the August polls. He spoke at ACK St James Cathedral in celebration of 38 years since Murang’a became a diocese. Dr Ruto told Murang’a residents the Jubilee government would not have scaled its achievements were it nor for the church.  He said his critics wanted churches regulated while others were irritated by his cash donations to churches. “They should let me be because even the Bible has verses that encourage generosity,” he said before embarking on a series of roadside rallies in Murang’a town, Kiharu and Kangema township.   Using Proverbs 13:22 (A good person leaves an inheritance for their children’s children, but a sinner’s wealth is stored up for the righteous), Dr Ruto urged those disturbed by his generosity to read the Bible. “Even the money that the so not good people have is the treasure of the righteous. Those in the forest should also bring their offering and tithe to the church,” he said.  In a veiled attack on President Mr Uhuru Kenyatta, who recently accused some church leaders of accepting cash stolen from public, Dr Ruto urged political leaders to leave church out of their dirty game.  His remarks also appeared to be directed to Mrs Ida Odinga, who called for disbandment and regulation of small churches. She later withdrew the remarks and apologised.  ANC party leader Mr Musalia Mudavadi said the Kenya Kwanza administration would respect the integrity and sanctity of the church. “We may crack jokes about everything, but we can’t be blasphemous when referring to God,” he said.  Leaders who accompanied Ruto included Murang’a Senator Mr Irungu Kang’ata, MPs Mr Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Ms Alice Wahome (Kandara), Ms Mary Waithira (Maragua), Mr Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Mr Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), and Mr Patrick Wainaina (Thika town). Woman reps Ms Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), and Ms Rahab Mukami; former Kiambu Governor Mr Ferdinand Waititu also joined.  They thanked the ACK for opening their doors at a time many religious leaders looking over their shoulders before accepting politicians.   In Murang’a, Dr Ruto rekindled the Raila phobia in Mt Kenya by urging the residents not to vote for a man with a reputation for leading masses to “uproot the railway line.” [Ndung’u Gachane]  “You know this kitendawili man well, he is still the man who rejects results of general elections and proceeds to swear himself in,” said Ruto.   Ruto admonished Uhuru for supporting Raila terming him as forgetful and ungrateful man who has trashed “my contributions towards his success of defeating Raila in both 2013 and 2017 general elections.”  “The one who helps you in distress is a friend and Uhuru should remember I stood with him in 2013 and in 2017 and at least keep off the succession politics and leave ‘Kitendawili’ for me to deal with him,” Ruto said.  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo claimed given that the President’s term was coming to an end, he had no moral authority to speak on behalf of the region.  “I’m qualified to speak on behalf of Agikuyu and I will campaign for Ruto in this region. I can promise him the majority of votes in this region but he must give us a share of the national cake to complement our numerical strength,” said Kabogo.  Ruto’s lieutenants who spoke in Muranga said the damage of long term distrust of a Raila presidency by Mt Kenya can’t be easily erased.  “We were told that he is insane by the same President who now want us to vote for him but we were never told when he was taken to hospital and his condition corrected,” Maragua MP Mary Waithira posed.   By Jacob Ng'etich | 7 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 7 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 7 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 7 hours ago