Archbishop Maurice Muhatia (left) takes over from Archbishop Phillip Anyolo. [File, Standard]  The coronation of Rev Maurice Muhatia Makumba as the new archbishop of the Catholic diocese of Kisumu is set for Saturday.  The Most Rev Muhatia, who becomes Kisumu's third archbishop, takes over from Archbishop Phillip Anyolo who was moved to the Nairobi archdiocese in November last year.  Rev Anyolo took over from Nairobi Auxiliary Bishop David Kamau who stepped in as an Apostolic Administrator following the retirement of Cardinal John Njue in January last year.  Muhatia was received by the Catholic faithful at St Joseph’s Milimani and St Theresa’s Cathedral Kibuye after making his entry through the Kericho/Kisumu border at Awasi yesterday. Muhatia, whose installation mass is to be held at Tumsifu Centre in Milimani, promised to serve the diocese with all commitment.  He is expected to preside over his first mass at St Theresa's Cathedral in Kibuye on Sunday. A Vespers Profession of Faith and Oath of Fidelity was expected to be done at the same church on Friday.  Pope Francis appointed Muhatia the archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Kisumu in February.  Archbishop Maurice Muhatia (left) was appointed by Pope Francis in February. [File, Standard]  Until his appointment, the Rev Muhatia was the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Nakuru, a position he'd held since December 2009.  He was ordained priest in October 1994 and posted to the Catholic Diocese of Kakamega.  Rev Muhatia is the current vice-chairman of Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops (KCCB) and Principal Administrator of Kenya Catholic Secretariate.  He has also served as the chairman of KCCB, Commission for Education and Religious Education (CERE), and part-time National Executive Secretary for KCCB Commission for Doctrine.  After ordination, he served as the Assistant Parish Priest of St Joseph Parish in Kakamega in 1994, and between 1995-1998, he was vice-rector of St. Peter Minor Seminary in Mukumu.  Rev Muhatia also served as vice-rector at St. Augustine Major Seminary, Mabanga, from 2002 to 2005 and interim Dean at St Mathias Mulumba Major Seminary in Tindinyo between 2005-2007.  He also served as rector at St. Thomas Aquinas Major Seminary Nairobi in 2007.  By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 days ago By Stanley Ongwae | 3 days ago