Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi now says he is ready to face any disciplinary action against him by the Jubilee Party.  This is after he defected from the party and joined Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA.  Speaking on Citizen Television this morning, Wamatangi said he had been summoned to Statehouse and was ready for any consequences.    This comes as President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to meet governors, senators, members of parliament and members of county assemblies from the entire Mt Kenya region. In what is seen as further taking the President head-on, the DP and the Kenya Kwanza brigade will be holding a political rally in his Gatundu South backyard on the same day.  I received a text that is inviting me this morning and it is very clear that all elected leaders from the Mt Kenya region are the invitees. I know I am not the agenda but if my dewhipping comes, I am ready for it,” said Wamatangi.  He added, “I have never been beholden to any position and if they feel it is my time to go so be it.”  Wamatangi, who was termed as the last man standing decamped from Jubilee to UDA where he will be contesting for Kiambu governor to unseat incumbent James Nyoro.  “My feet are burning; I have come here running because this is where I need to be. I have consulted mama mboga's at the marketplace, and wazee's in their farms, church leaders and my family and all have assured me that UDA is the best place to be,” he said.  The senator said the entire central region had walked along a political journey with Ruto and this is the best time they showed that solidarity.  “We are here because of the work the Deputy President William Ruto did in Jubilee. The amount of commitment and planning that he put in that house unfortunately crumbled. But in UDA, we are a national outfit that will unite Kenyans,” he said.  Wamatangi said even if their competitors propelled propaganda about UDA and Kenya Kwanza alliance, they remain focused to ensure they deliver the Mt Kenya vote for Ruto.  The last time Jubilee had a purge on legislators perceived to be disloyal to the party saw the likes of Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata dewhipped from his Majority Whip seat.  Nine senators allied to Ruto staged a walkout in solidarity with Mr Kang’ata, faulting the purge as unprocedural and illegal.  The legislators however got a reprieve after the Political Parties’ Tribunal suspended their expulsion.  By Ndungu Gachane | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 6 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 6 hours ago