Council of Governors Chair Martin Wambora (center) flanked by other governors and stakeholders during the launch of Council of Governors' Covid-19 compendium on February 28, 2022. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  The Council of Governors has launched a publication showcasing interventions made in the fight against Covid-19.  The report titled County Innovations and Best Practices on Covid-19 Response released yesterday highlighted successful stories on curbing the spread of the virus.   Some of the highlighted interventions include Machakos County's move to convert Kenyatta Stadium into a makeshift hospital for mass testing and isolation for mild and moderate cases. The 60-bed capacity temporary hospital was made out of a tent at the stadium and installed with testing equipment as well as handwashing facilities.  The stadium is located about 200m from Machakos Level 5 Hospital, which made it easier to refer emergency cases to the Intensive Care Unit.  Kericho was recognised for resorting to radiology to test coronavirus. In exercising the alternative method of testing, doctors at Kericho County Referral Hospital used the CT Scan to determine the status of suspected Covid-19 patients.  "About 99 per cent of the cases confirmed positive through radiology also turned out positive using the reagents. The patients showed a unique pattern in the lungs that diverges from that of asthmatic patients or any other patient with a respiratory condition," read the report in part.  Speaking at the launch, CoG chairman Martin Wambora said the onset of the pandemic exposed the inadequacies in the health sector in terms of human resources, hospital beds, ICU equipment, and supplies such as ventilators and oxygen.  The situation, he said, forced counties to come up with local initiatives to contain the virus.  "Counties had to work round the clock to prevent deaths while cushioning citizens from the ripple effects of the virus," Wambora said.    In Kitui, Governor Charity Ngilu's administration procured locally made face masks from the Kitui County Textiles Centre and distributed them to all learners ahead of the school reopening in 2020, lessening the burden on parents.  In Migori, the Health department deployed healthcare workers to the GK Prisons treatment centre which had been dedicated to handling Covid-19 cases.  Most of the prison's office spaces were converted to treatment rooms and holding areas.  By Antony Gitonga | 11 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago By Edward Kosut | 1 day ago By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago