A youth is taken through the physical examination process at Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi on March 24,  2022. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  The National Police today embarked on an exercise to recruit about 5,000 constables across the country to join the service.  A spot check by the Standard however established there was a low turnout of youth for the recruitment.  Recruits are required to, among other things, have attained a minimum grade of D plus in their secondary education.  Some of the youth who turned out for recruitment wait to be examined at Nyayo national stadium in Nairobi on March 24, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard] They are also required to be between 19 years and 28 years.  The exercise today will focus on non-graduate candidates.    Earlier on, the Inspector-General of Police Hilary Mutyambai warned candidates seeking to join the the service against engaging in corruption.  Police officer examining dental of a recruit at Nyayo national stadium in Nairobi on March 24, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  Through National Police Service Spokesperson Bruno Shioso, Mutyambai said any officer involved in the recruitment exercise found to be engaging in malpractice will be disciplined.  “We will have very high-level oversight of the exercise in order to guarantee the integrity of the process," Shioso told The Standard on phone.  The idea of locking out the graduates is to ensure the commission resolves an impasse of graduates who end up seeking higher salaries while still serving in the lower ranks.  Graduate police officers have been battling their employer in court over their salaries.  Police officers inspect recruits during the police recruitment exercise in Shinyalu, Kakamega county. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  NPS has since instituted new measures to guide the issue of graduate officers.  This year, graduate police officers have been excluded from the list of those being considered for promotions.  Some of the Recruit participated in Physical exercise at Kasarani stadium before being recruited to join police service on March 24, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  In a letter dated January 6, Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua said graduate police officers will not be allowed to take part in this year’s promotion course at the Police Training College in Kiganjo.  Shioso said the graduates were not being targeted as the decision was only aimed at harmonising promotions in the police service.  Photos by Edward Kiplimo and Mumo Munuve  By Daniel Chege | 15 minutes ago By Erick Abuga | 3 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 5 hours ago By Ishaq Jumbe | 13 hours ago