DP William Ruto speaks to supporters in Baringo South. February 13, 2022. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders have expressed confidence that DP William Ruto will win the August 9 polls in the first round.  Speaking during a rally in Trans Nzoia County, the leaders, led by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Tharaka Nithi's Kithure Kindiki, claimed the alliance commands 70 per cent of the vote.  Flanked by MPs Chris Wamalwa, Oscar Sudi, Robert Pokuse and politician Allan Chesang, during rallies in Endebess, Saboti and Moi's Bridge, the leaders urged Kenyans to support DP Ruto’s presidential bid.   They pledged that their government will initiate radical reforms to boost the economy and bring down the cost of living.  “The fifth government to be formed by Kenya Kwanza team will tighten the rope on unnecessary external borrowing. We shall retire from expensive external borrowing and, if necessary, borrow prudently,” said Wetang’ula.  According to Wetang’ula, the country's ballooning debt skyrocketed after the 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga.  “The former President Mwai Kibaki left the country with a debt of Sh1.8 trillion, under Uhuru and Ruto government, the debt went up to Sh4.6 trillion. After the handshake between Uhuru and Raila, it stands at Sh11 trillion,” said Wetang’ula.  The senator warned against the tampering of the polls and outlined that the alliance will relook the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC) and invest Sh100 billion in support of small business enterprises (SMEs).  “Our agenda is to ensure money is in the pockets of Kenyans. We shall disburse millions of shillings help to help small businesses,” he added. “We will relook at the CBC because it is burdening parents.”  Kindiki, on his part, took issue with Odinga’s stand on the suffering of farmers amid the rising cost of living and accused the former premier of failing to mitigate the prevalence of food insecurity.   “In Nakuru, you promised to bring down the cost of food. I wonder whether your promise will work because If you are not able to convince Uhuru to bring down the cost of fertilizer how are you going the cost of food down,” he said.  Speaking during the burial of former Kenya Seed Director Nathaniel arap Tum, Soi MP Caleb Kositany accused President Uhuru of intimidating leaders supporting DP Ruto.  “The president must be careful on the way he is handling the transition process. He should stop intimidating those who are not allied to his preferred successor,” said Kositany.   By Kevin Ogutu | 3 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 4 hours ago By Ben Ahenda | 5 hours ago By Mate Tongola | 8 hours ago