CS Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Deputy Governor Prof Philip Museve Kutima, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and Isaac Andabwa during a past event. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Politicians from Western Kenya continue to switch camps to position themselves ahead of the August 9 General Election.  They include Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima, ODM nominated MP Naomi Shiyonga, Mr Duke Mainga and Mr Andrew Maubi. They have dumped ODM and Wiper for the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) and UDA led by Deputy President William Ruto.  In Kisii, Mr Mainga and Dr Maubi’s defection dealt Wiper and Azimio la Umoja a huge blow seeing as the politicians openly embraced the DPs camp. The two have been close allies of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. They had contested the Bomachoge Borabu and Kitutu Chache South parliamentary seats in 2017.  Both defected to UDA on Sunday. Mr Maubi came into the limelight during the Kitutu Chache South by-election in 2017. “Politics is what it is and we have our reasons well researched and considered,” he said.  Mr Mainga said there comes a time when one needs to take a bold step to grow.  “Politics involves too many calculations. I have prayed about this and consulted widely. In the Hustler nation, I have found peace.”  Mr Mainga emerged fourth in the 2017 parliamentary race and was later appointed the Kisii Sports executive by Governor James Ongwae.  After he was received in UDA by Dr Ruto on Sunday, Mr Mainga said he had shelved his senatorial ambition to focus on the Bomachoge Borabu MP position.  Also on the list of defections is Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri who is headed to DAP-K. Elected on an ODM ticket in 2017, the former minister is said to have been unhappy with the events at the Kisii Sports Club during the Azimio rally two weeks ago.  Kisii Senator Prof Sam Ongeri. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  During the event, some youth heckled the senator alongside other ODM leaders. He alleged that the youth had been hired.  Mr Ongeri, via social media, yesterday said the governor’s office is serious and needs adequate experience. “I may belong to the older group but my spirit and heart are that of a young person. I will create a level playing ground where every child born in Kisii County will have the same opportunity as a child born in the US.”  In Kakamega, Prof Kutima dumped ODM, saying party operatives attempted to scuttle his ambition to succeed Governor Wycliffe Oparanya.  He was removed as Kakamega ODM chairman and replaced by Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito in August 2021.  Mr Kutima was removed after a delegates’ meeting in Kakamega town.  He said his removal was part of a wider scheme to hurt his ambition.   “They wanted to cripple me by denying me the party ticket. I got wind of the elaborate plan and watched things unfold before I decided to join DAP-K.”  Prof Kutima said he run for governor on a DAP-K ticket.  “I will meet the ODM candidate and other rivals on the ballot.”  He continued: “I believe I am the best for the county top job having served as the second in command for about nine years now.  “I understand how the county runs, unlike my competitors who would find it hard to manage the county affairs.”  Mr Oparanya previously said ODM would give the ticket to a strong candidate who will deliver the seat. He denied claims he had a preferred candidate.  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Ms Shiyonga said she decided to defect to DAP-K to vie for the Kakamega Woman Representative seat.  Political analysts say the nominated senator could have feared the party would hand over the ticket to incumbent Else Muhanda.  In Bungoma, at least five ODM ward representatives quit the party on Friday and joined Ford Kenya.  Their defections could see ODM fortunes in Bungoma continue to dwindle despite inroads made by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in the area recently.  However, Mr Kizito insisted the party would hold free and fair nominations to avert a fallout.  By Phares Mutembei | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 5 hours ago