Kitale Doyens training at the Kitale ASK show ground. The team, which is made of professionals from various fields in Kitale uses sports to keep fit and foster integration. [Martin Ndiema]  An old adage states that ‘all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy’.  This was the motivation behind a group of young professionals drawn from eight counties that gave birth to an amateur football league in Kitale.  The idea sprung up sometime in the year 2019 when a few people working in different fields formed a platform to share ideas and bond with each other.  The professionals, aged 35 and above would meet at a sports ground in Kitale to share their life experiences.  Joshua Ndalo, one of the pioneers of the initiative and a civil engineer based in Kitale, says after the meeting, some members would take the opportunity to exercise on the pitch for a few hours.  The desire to expand the network and bond with more professionals gave birth to an eight-team league dubbed the Lake Region Regent Series (LRRS) which brings together members from eight counties.  Ndalo says initially, the professionals formed the Kitale Doyen football team composed of people from different career backgrounds in the vast county.  But the entire network got its seal of approval in Kericho County where the LRRS league was first hosted at the Kericho Green Stadium with a total of four teams from Kericho, Kitale, Kisumu and Kisii counties playing.  The all-men teams were Oyugis Veterans, Kericho Lagents, Kisumu Veterans and Kisii Wazee.  “We are professionals from different fields who meet after work to exercise, bond and network. We have grown our networks with eight counties now participating in the league,” said Mr Ndalo.  The civil engineer disclosed that the teams are composed of teachers, engineers, lawyers, doctors, and artisans among other professionals.  Kitale Doyens training at the Kitale ASK show ground. The team, which is made of professionals from various fields in Kitale uses sports to keep fit and foster integration. [Martin Ndiema]  Mr Ndalo said in their free time, the men join their peers in sporting activities and thereafter consult and share their experiences.  He disclosed that some participating members are former football coaches or retired players who enjoy the games, not as a career, but just to relax and enjoy the chit-chat.  “This engagement promotes our network, builds friendships, and improves our social welfare among many other benefits. We are happy we have something to share as we sport,” he said.  Dr Donald Ratemo from the Kisii County Teaching and Referral Hospital leads the team from Kisii County, while the other teams are led by former football coaches.  “These sporting activities give us the opportunity to interact freely. Putting on a jersey and going to the pitch makes us forget our work environments for a while and this is healthy since work pressure at times has a negative impact on our well-being,” said Mr Ndalo.  In the year 2020, the league stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic but resumed late last year and four other teams managed to come on board.  Already, the league started its first round of matches at the Kericho Green Stadium on Sunday, February 27.  Competing teams include the Modich football team from Migori, Umri from Bungoma who are also the defending champions, Kitale Doyens and Busia Masters. The league plays at Kericho Green Stadium and the Kericho Teachers Training College.  To sustain their activities, member teams contribute between Sh30,000 and Sh40,000 for the entire activity through individual contributions.  This covers travel costs, hiring referees, pitch marking, purchasing equipment and catering meals for the players. Each team contributes between Sh6,000 and Sh10,000 per month.  Ronald Owino, the Secretary-General and team manager of the Kitale Doyens says networking and sharing of experiences are beneficial to the participants. Among the key players are the current coach Yohana Wanyama of St Anthony Boys football team and Maboni Opondo who coaches Trans Nzoia Falcons, which plays in the female Premier League.  Others are Joshua Wangombe, the current captain who also doubles up as the team coach and Dan Masonic, the coach for Trans Millan which plays in the Division II league.  “We promote upcoming teams through donations, buying them jerseys and buying clothes for street children as a way of giving back to the society,” said Mr Owino.  By Peter J Burns | 1 hour ago By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago By Titus Too | 2 days ago By Brian Kipkorir | 2 days ago