Machakos Governor and Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua does a jig at a rally at Matuu town on February 25, 2022.   Maendeleo Chap Chap party will issue direct nomination tickets for aspirants seeking elective positions in the August 9th general election.  Party leader Alfred Mutua announced that the party’s national governing council has ratified the plan to exempt aspirants from pre-election competitions in order to enable them focus their energies to winning their seats.  Mutua, who is also the Machakos governor, however, clarified that the party shall employ consensus in circumstances where more than one aspirant expresses interest for the party’s ticket.   “As Maendeleo Chap Chap, we have decided we will not conduct party primaries, we will issue direct tickets. Where several aspirants seek tickets we will have alternative mechanisms of finding consensus,” Dr Mutua said after unveiling MCCP candidates for various positions drawn from the entire lower Eastern region.  Mutua asked aspirants angling for tickets from other political parties to instead join his party, arguing it will be a sure bet to ensure one’s name is on the ballot.  “I am challenging those seeking tickets from other political parties out there, are you sure that party will give you a ticket? Are you sure the nominations will be free and fair? Maendeleo Chap Chap will guarantee that,” Dr Mutua said.  At the same time, Mutua dismissed the calls for zoning of political aspirants under the various parties in Azimio coalition, saying Maendeleo Chap Chap will field candidates in all elective positions apart from the presidency.  “We will field candidates in Wards, constituencies, and county level. If other parties under Azimio don’t wish to participate is up to them. We will not surrender any region or elective position to anyone apart from the presidential seat,” Mutua declared.  He said all political parties who signed up to work with the Azimio coalition had equal stakes to negotiate for space and opportunities in the Azimio government.  “We had a meeting with the summit comprising representatives from all the parties and our representatives are right there on the negotiating table,” he said.  By John Muia | 7 days ago By John Muia | 8 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 11 days ago By Paul Ogemba | 14 days ago