Benjamin Washiali ( Mumias East MP), Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale at Kakamega golf hotel on March 26, 2022. [Nathan Ochunge, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza leaders now claim that President Uhuru Kenyatta is not ready to retire but wants to remain in power after August 9 polls.  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula said Uhuru is supporting Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga so that they can share the government if he wins.  He claimed that it was a condition Raila had to agree to before being endorsed for the top seat.   “Uhuru used to say Raila wants a ‘nusu mkate’ government but in real sense, he is the one salivating for it. He wants to remain in power.  “We are prepared to send both of them in to political oblivion,” Mudavadi said at Kakamega Golf Hotel during a Kenya Kwanza rally.  Mudavadi said the reason Uhuru wants to hold onto power after the polls is to control Raila and protect his government failures.  He said the president knows that when Kenya Kwanza takes power, he will be put to task to account for his mistakes and the only choice is supporting Raila.  MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega Senator) and Boni Khalwale (ex-senator), Rashid Echesa (former Sports CS) and a host of local leaders accompanied them.  The ANC leader said Raila is in a Catch 22 situation since he does not control even a half of the country and his chances of clinching the seat in the August 9 polls are limited.  “If Uhuru with his State machinery cannot take his own MP Moses Kuria to Azimio and even his people have rejected him, what makes Raila think he will be the next president,” said Mudavadi.  Mudavadi also blamed Raila for the high cost of living, saying that Kenyans are being overtaxed by the government to raise money to fund Raila’s presidential bid.  Wetang’ula said there is no way Raila will form the next government since Western and Rift Valley voting blocs are in Kenya Kwanza.  “We are not gambling in Kenya Kwanza and made a conscious decision in broad daylight and Mulembe nation is well catered for.  We are your public trustees and we will never let you down,” Wetang’ula said.  By Kamau Ngotho | 55 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 55 minutes ago By Robert Amalemba | 55 minutes ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago