Sweet potatoes at Naivas Supermarket's Nakuru Midtown branch. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard].  Sweet potato farmers can now expect better returns following the launch of a processing plant that cost Sh117 million.  The factory in Getonganya in Kuria West and the first of its kind in the county was funded by the Ministry of Devolution, the county government, and a grant from the European Union.  The plant is expected to process over 100 tonnes of potatoes daily, allowing farmers to expand production.  The local administration contributed Sh10 million and took care of logistics as the plant was being constructed while the national government, through the Devolution ministry, provided the five acres of land on which the plant sits. It also facilitated capacity building among farmers to increase production and the quality of the potatoes. The EU gave a Sh107 million grant that went towards setting up the factory’s structures and purchase of machines. Part of the money supported the capacity building of sweet potato value chain stakeholders.  “The national and county governments have been working together to stir the local economy even as we seek to build on the President’s Big Four Agenda pillars on food security and manufacturing,” said Acting Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa who spoke during the commissioning of the plant on Monday.    “The national government, through such partnerships, hopes to enhance value addition to areas that have the potential, to create employment and enhance food security,” said Mr Wamalwa.  Governor Okoth Obado and delegates from the EU attended the event.  The project, according to Wamalwa, is one of 15 that his ministry and stakeholders are working on to enhance the government’s chances of realising the Big Four agenda, especially on food security and manufacturing.  He said his ministry will continue to develop friendly policies to guide such projects.  Migori is listed as the second-largest producer of Orange-fleshed sweet-potato (OFSP) with 11,312 hectares under cultivation after Homa Bay with 24,268 hectares under cultivation.  Kuria region alone has about 6,500 farmers who produce close to 0.3 million tonnes of sweet potatoes per year.  However, over the years, the growing of sweet potatoes has become unattractive to farmers in the region due to the lack of markets and exploitative brokers.  “With this factory, our people will enjoy the sweet and medicinal bread made from their crop. They will also enjoy good prices for their crop,” said the governor.  Mr Obado urged more farmers to grow sweet potatoes.      By Stephanie Wangari | 1 day ago By Stephen Nzioka | 1 day ago By Stephen Nzioka | 3 days ago By Nderitu Gichure | 6 days ago