Locals walk far distances to collect water for domestic use in North Horr. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Every year in March and September, a natural occurrence pushes temperatures higher than normal.  During Equinox, which scientists say usually falls on days between the dates of 19 and 23 in both months, the sun is often directly above the equator.  “The equinox often marks the transitions between the seasons,” said Mr Paul Gacheru, a scientist.  Kenya is one of the 13 countries through which the equator passes. During the March equinox, Mr Gacheru says, the South Pole of the Sun is tilted towards Earth while in September, the North Pole of the Sun is tilted towards the Earth.  Equinox marks the only times of the year when the subsolar point is directly on the Equator. A subsolar point is an area where the sun’s rays shine directly to the Earth’s surface at a right angle.  According to daily weather forecast by the Kenya Meteorological Department, between March 19 and March 23, rains were received in the highlands west of the Rift Valley as well as over a few areas in the highlands east of the Rift Valley. The rest of the country was sunny and dry.    Within the five-day period, areas within North West part of the country, including Turkana and Samburu counties, recorded maximum temperatures of between 38 and 40 degrees Celsius. Sunday marked the hottest day in these regions.  In areas including Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia and surrounding areas, maximum temperatures ranged from 32 and 33 degrees Celsius. March 20 and March 22 recorded highest temperatures at 33 degrees.  In North Eastern areas like Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties, maximum temperatures ranged between 38 and 40° degrees Celsius while in Kitui, Machakos, Makueni and surrounding areas, highest temperatures ranged between 33 and 36 degrees.  In Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties, the temperatures measured were between 32 and 33 degrees Celsius during the five days ending yesterday.  The Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, and the central and south Rift Valley areas recorded highest temperatures of between 27 and 31 degrees Celsius.     By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 8 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 8 hours ago