President Uhuru Kenyatta with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga at the KICC, Nairobi, during Jubilee Party's NDC. Left, Senator Gideon Moi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. [Courtesy]  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have lined up a series of campaign rallies that will culminate in naming of Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate.  Raila’s presidential campaign team yesterday released a nine-day itinerary that is set to begin tomorrow and conclude next week Saturday at a major delegates’ conference in Nairobi.  The details were shared amid back-and-forth talks between Azimio la Umoja and One Kenya Alliance (OKA) that has been linked to the aborted unveiling of Raila on Sunday at Kamkunji grounds in Nairobi.   The ODM leader is the presumed Azimio la Umoja presidential flagbearer, but his naming has been slowed down by the demands that OKA principals want met before pronouncing themselves on the former premier’s candidature.  OKA brings together Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and United Democratic Party’s Cyrus Jirongo.  In the released schedule, the Azimio team will be in Nakuru County tomorrow before proceeding to Kisii and Nyamira on Thursday.  On Friday, Raila and his team will pitch camp in Bungoma before moving to Machakos County on Saturday where they will address rallies in Athi River and Mlolongo.  The ODM leader will on Sunday lead his foot soldiers in a campaign blitz in Nyeri before taking a break on Monday.  On Tuesday, the team will head to Maralal and Baragoi before heading to Wajir on Wednesday. The team will on Thursday go to Raila’s backyard of Kisumu before returning to Nairobi for Azimio la Umoja Delegates Conference.  President Kenyatta who publicly endorsed the ODM leader at the weekend hinted at joining the rallies.  Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga during ODM NDC at Kasarani, Nairobi. [File, Standard]  “Just like Raila has said, we will go round the country together and after two weeks I have no doubt we will have a major meeting and decide on our flag bearer,” said Uhuru.  “I am a Jubilee member but in mind, body, soul and actions I am now a member of the Azimio and I will push its agenda going forward,” he added.  Head of Raila’s campaign team and Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi yesterday told The Standard that the planned rallies will be attended by Azimio partner parties.  Governor Muriithi, however, remained cagey if the Azimio delegates will endorse the ODM leader, stating that there are several decisions that the conference will make resolutions on.  Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat said they will join the planned rallies.  He reiterated that Kanu chairman Gideon Moi has been given a free hand by delegates to work with Azimio.   By Jacob Ngetich  | 5 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 8 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 11 hours ago By Dennis Tarus | 14 hours ago