A man who lost his wife and mother in a gun attack at his Katani, Machakos County, home yesterday narrated the experience in court.  Mr Fredrick Mwangi fought off the gunmen before scampering for safety at a neighbour's house.   He lost his wife Purity Wanjiru and mother Ann Gatiti in the October 26, 2019, attack.  Mr Mwangi testified before Justice L.W Muigai at the High Court in Machakos. He said he had just driven into his compound with his wife and sister-in-law when they were met with gunshots.  “I remember we had two vehicles. After closing shop at 8pm at Mlolongo we loaded goods from our wines and spirits meant for a shop at Katani which was managed by my sister-in-law Roselyn Nyaga.”   Mr Mwangi said they arrived at Katani at about 9pm and started offloading the goods, a process that took about 45 minutes.  Thereafter they proceeded home which was about 3km from Katani shopping centre.    “I was driving the vehicle. My wife was in the front passenger seat. Along the way, there was nothing suspicious until we arrived.”  After they entered the compound, his mother-in-law was trying to close the gate when they heard gunshots.  "On my right side, I saw a gunman wearing a raincoat that resembled those worn by police officers."  When he tried to reverse the vehicle, the gunman shouted, "pesa munawekanga wapi?"  “My sister-in-law and I both managed to jump out of the car ... I rushed behind the gunman and held him, trying to pull him outside the gate."  They fell as they wrestled and the thug shouted, "Eric kuja unisaidie, huyu jamaa anajaribu kuninyang’anya bunduki."  The man identified as Eric emerged and started shooting. He stopped, took a stone and hit Mr Mwangi on the head.  “When Eric started shooting again, one of the bullets went through my left shoe hurting my toe. I was also shot on the elbow," Mr Mwangi continued.  He tried to plead with the gunmen not to kill them, and they asked, "Pesa iko wapi?" and Mr Mwangi pointed at the pick-up.  When the gunmen headed to the vehicle Mr Mwangi ran to the nearest neighbourhood to seek help.  The neighbour took him to Katani hospital before he was referred to Shalom hospital.  “I did not go back to the scene.”  He said after he was discharged from the hospital he headed to Chiromo mortuary where he identified his wife's body.  He told the court the family had no feuds.  Both women have been buried.  The accused, Antony Kilonzo, is remanded at Machakos GK prison. The case proceeds on Tuesday.  By John Muia | 1 day ago By Phares Mutembei | 4 days ago By Paul Ogemba | 7 days ago By Peterson Githaiga | 9 days ago