Locals stare at the deadly pit in Shikhambi estate in Kakamega County. At least three bodies have been discovered from the pit with locals calling on the government to renovate it. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  It all began as a narrow and shallow trench to drain away rainwater that comes from Kakamega town.  Today, it is a 15-20 foot ditch of death that continues to haunt people and livestock living in Shikhambi estate on the outskirts of Kakamega town, Lurambi constituency.  Locals say they have retrieved three bodies of infants thrown inside the gully by unknown people.  "I have witnessed and participated in the retrieving of more than three bodies of infants,” said Asha Omari an area elder. Omari, 70, says they now fear the ditch will soon turn into a dumping place for the dead like the River Yala where tens of bodies have been retrieved in the past few months.  “We do not know whether the bodies are from the area we need action least this turns out to be another River Yala in Siaya County,” said Omari.  According to locals, the latest body was retrieved last month wrapped inside a box.  “As area elder I have personally counted three bodies, we retrieved two bodies on December. The bodies are either wrapped in boxes or carrier bags. We do not know how many others have been eaten by dogs or even rotten,” said Omari.  Omari said she has lived in the area for 50 years, stating the trench was a small and narrow tunnel to drain water but with time and due to the magnitude of rainwater the drainage has expanded.  The residents say the ditch has also become a dumping site for all form of waste products and it posses serious health risks.  "Cases of diarrhoea and malaria in this area are very high. I was admitted to hospital for diarrhoea, we fear children too will be affected. The National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) and public health officers should come to our rescue,"  said Omari.  Ramadhan Ishmael, a resident stares at the deadly pit in Shikhambi estate in Kakamega County. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  "The problem is not the rainwater from town it is how the drainage was made, it was not constructed with stones or caravans to sustain the force and power of water," said another resident Ismael Adala a resident.  They add that if something is not done with urgency by the county government, the trench will continue to make its way to people's homesteads.  "You can see this deep gully opposite my home. It is rapidly expanding and eating into my land. I have children who are exposed to the dangers of it," said Adala.  He went on; "We built a bridge over the place to help children and locals cross but people now fear using it."  However, by the time The Standard visited the area, the bridge appeared weak with visible cracks on the wall where it sits.   According to Faith Iyayi, the area is also experiencing insecurity issues.  "We demand that the county government addresses this issue by improving the condition of this trench and we may soon find bodies of adults here," said Iyayi.  Additionally, they said they have lost three cattle in the same gully.  Residents are now calling upon those responsible for dumping infants into the gully not to kill their babies even if they are experiencing difficulties.  Kakamega Central  Sub-County OCPD Valerian Obore said he was had worked in the area for barely three months and had not well familiarised with the situation terming the incident unfortunate if true.  He said he was going to follow up the matter with the relevant authorities from the county government.  When contacted later, Obore said he had talked to the county's Environment Department on the matter and they have promised to address the issue.  "The county government has agreed to renovate the tunnel and fill the ditch and therefore we call upon the locals to remain calm because the issue is going to be resolved," said Obore.  By Edwin Nyarangi | 1 hour ago By Nderitu Gichure | 1 hour ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 hour ago By Christopher Kipsang | 1 hour ago