The Azimio coalition is facing a tough challenge following jitters among party members over free and fair nominations as interest in the coalition grows amid talk of staging joint nominations.  Concern is mounting over claims that the party will require candidates from the parties allied with it to go through a joint nomination rather than contest at the party level.  The memory of shambolic nominations by Jubilee in 2017 where the primaries had to be repeated in some areas amid complaints of massive rigging, is still fresh.  Azimio la Umoja, which brings together Jubilee and ODM as well as affiliate parties is racking its brain over how to manage competing political interests.  Jubilee and ODM have firmly placed themselves as the leading parties in Azimio. Affiliate parties such as PNU, UPYA and PAA have joined the Azimio coalition by aligning themselves with Jubilee Party. Intent on winning a majority in the August 9 election the coalition is flirting with the idea of fielding one candidate from if it will give the party a greater chance of winning.  A number of political hopefuls have communicated their misgivings.  During their national delegates conference last week, ODM revealed that it was considering consensus, direct nomination, identification of candidates through voting by delegates and universal suffrage as methods of picking candidates.  During a meeting at DAP party headquarters last week, party deputy leader Ayub Savula said while they are convinced that Azimio was the best bet for them, they would sign an agreement with parties in the Azimio la Umoja movement, their candidates will not have to be subjected to joint nominations.    ODM has assured members that the nomination exercise would be precise and based on science.  It is an ideal that other parties and aspirants subscribe to, especially those who feel the use of direct nomination could pose danger and bring political acrimony to the party.  Under the Political Parties (Amendment) Act, candidates will be allowed to run on either coalition party tickets or individual parties.  “If one has been identified scientifically (through opinion polls) they should get a direct ticket. The model will be arrived at following scientific research,” Junet told delegates.  ODM yesterday issued a notice of party primaries, inviting applications from its members interested in vying on the party ticket.  The aspirants have until March 13 to hand in their applications for governor, members of the senate, national assembly, county woman representative and members of county assemblies.  “At the close of this deadline, the NEB shall issue further notice indicating the time schedule for party elections by registered members in the different counties,” the notice signed by the chairperson of the National Election Board (NEB) Catherine Mumma, said.  The notice gives an assurance to wary aspirants that the party intends to keep the nomination in-house.  But the feeling of caution persists among parties in the coalition who feel they may get a raw deal in the nominations.  This wary portends a fallout that could come after the exercise is carried next month, and could potentially lead to widespread defections.  The parties also feel that Jubilee was taking the country back to 2016 when a number of parties dissolved to form the grand party.  The parties say they have invested a lot in recruiting, preparing and branding their aspirants and want them to run on their own platforms.  The coalition is walking on thin ice by choosing to have all candidates run under the Azimio ticket rather than their own individual parties.  Some aspirants fear they will ruin their chances of being on the ballot if they go for joint nominations.    By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 4 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 8 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 10 hours ago