Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege yesterday dispelled speculation that she was planning to join Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA).  There were rumours over the weekend that Ms Chege, who has been vocal in Azimio la Umoja rallies was planning to join Ruto during his meeting in Murang'a town.  The DP allies had even shared on social media that her defection was loading. But hours later, Ms Chege responded on her Twitter page by posting photos of her and a campaign poster in Jubilee colours captioning it "Jubilee ni sisi".  Yesterday, she once again cleared the air after visiting the Jubilee party headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. Dressed in a red yesterday, she visited Jubilee headquarters accompanied by Jubilee Party Murang'a governor aspirant Jamleck Kamau and were received by Kieni MP Kanini Kega.  She publicly declared that she is firmly in Jubilee Party and is walking with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Azimio la Umoja presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga and denied any intentions of joining Ruto.  Kieni MP Kanini Kega. [David Njaaga,Standard]  "Today we just want to show our detractors that we are firm and I am still very much in Jubilee. I just want to assure everyone that Jubilee is home and we will work as one team," she said.  She further stated that she had been missing in action in Azimio campaigns because of doctor’s advice that she takes some rest.  Her recent silence from the political scene, since she fell ill has risen questions on whether she was contemplating shifting allegiance.  "However, now that I feel better and my health has improved, I will go to the ground and finish from where I left," she said.  Late last month, Ms Chege had been hospitalised after failing to appear before the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBCs) code of conduct hearing of a case involving her vote-rigging remarks.  The MP had two months ago caused political furore when at a rally in Vihiga, claimed that votes were stolen in the 2017 general election in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the same could be replicated this year for Raila.   By  | 43 minutes ago By Standard Team | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 12 hours ago