Zephania Nyaore Obadiah, the prime suspect in the sexual assault of a female diplomat at a Milimani court on Tuesday, March 15, 2022. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Police have been granted ten days to hold the prime suspect in the assault of a female diplomat by boda boda operators.  Zachariah Nyaore Obadiah appeared before Milimani Senior Principal Magistrate Robinson Ondiek yesterday.  Investigating officer Lyvonne Mwanzia of Gigiri Police Station said preliminary investigations had indicate the victim was a diplomat working with WFP. She was attacked after she allegedly knocked down a boda boda rider. “Your honour the victim was involved in an accident where she was sexually assaulted and an iPhone 6 worth Sh130,000 stolen from her,” said Ms Mwanzia.  Obadiah alongside his accomplices are accused of robbery with violence and sexual assault. The officer said Obadiah is one of the suspects captured on a video that went viral, showing boda boda operators assaulting a woman. The suspect allegedly went into hiding after the incident.  She said Obadiah was arrested at Isebania border in Migori County while attempting to flee to Tanzania.      Ms Mwanzia maintained the suspect was a flight risk and if released he was likely to disappear to defeat justice.  “Your honour I plead with this court to grant me 10 days to complete my investigations, interrogate suspects and subject Obadiah’s phone to a forensic audit,” she pleaded.   She also said she wanted to review CCTV cameras along the road where the alleged incident took place in order to be able to arrest more suspects and present them in court.  Ms Mwanzia further said that the 10 days she was asking for would enable her forward her findings to the Director of Public Prosecutions for perusal and get advice before preferring charges against the suspect.  The police officer insisted the cases was of public interest. The victim is represented by lawyer Philip Murgor who said that his client was traumatised from the sexual assault and robbery.  Murgor said the video on the assault had been widely circulated and demanded thorough investigations.   Obadiah who did not object to the 10 days detention at Gigiri Police Station denied assaulting the diplomat claiming that he was a bystander captured in the video.  Obadia claimed he was shocked to see his image on social media that he was wanted by police. Obadiah and 16 other suspects will appear in court on March 24 for plea taking.  By Oscar Obonyo | 1 hour ago By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By James Munyeki | 10 hours ago By Nancy Nzau | 10 hours ago