Women police officers in Kenya during a parade. [Courtesy of UN]  The National Police Service seeks to recruit 5,000 police constables in a mass recruitment drive to be held on Thursday, March 24.  The service says it is targeting holders of at least a D+ (plus) in KCSE, but shouldn’t be university graduates to avert inevitable dispute over salaries.  John ole Moyaki, the Head of Finance and Administration at the National Police Service Commission, said on Monday, March 21 that the exercise to fill up the service will take place in all Kenyan sub-counties on Thursday.  He made the remarks at Kabarnet Town in Baringo County during a pre-recruitment clinic. Ole Moyaki said the Police Service won’t be keen on university degree holders in the recruitment exercise.  Normally, those who join the Police Service as degree holders, are entitled to the rank of Inspector under the Job Group J, attracting a higher pay. Those who join without university qualification are assigned the rank of Police Constable under the Job Group F.  Ole Moyaki further cautioned successful female recruits against conceiving within the next nine months.  “During the post-recruitment training, there will be vigorous exercises. That could pose a health challenge to the expectant trainees,” he said.  Ole Moyaki also warned candidates seeking police jobs to refrain from offering bribes to join the service.  The Nubian community in Kabarnet urged the Police Service to offer them a special slot on grounds that they’re a minority group.  “For decades now, we have been sidelined when it comes to getting jobs in the Police Service,” said Khalfan Hamisi, a member of the Nubian community in Kabarnet.  Shafi Suleiman, another member of the Nubian community, said he has tried to join the service for the last seven years, but his attempts have been futile.  “I’ll try [to join the Police Service] for a final time this year. If I fail, I’ll direct my energy to other jobs,” said the 28-year-old.  Baringo County Police Commander Admason Bungei assured the residents that the recruitment drive will be conducted fairly.  “We are seeking to recruit qualified people who are physically fit, have no criminal records or integrity concerns,” he said.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Collins Kweyu and Fred Kagonye | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 8 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 9 hours ago