Governor Okoth Obado and his four children are facing trial over alleged conspiracy to defraud Migori County government. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  The multi-million shillings graft case hearing against Migori Governor Okoth Obado failed to proceed after one of her daughters gave birth.  Anti-corruption court chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi however directed that the court facilitates a virtual hearing to enable Evelyne Odhiambo attend the hearing tomorrow (today) from her remote location without leaving her new-born baby.  “Based on the evidence that she has a newborn baby, the court will allow the application to adjourn the hearing but directs that proper arrangements be made for her virtual attendance to follow the proceedings,” ruled Mugambi.   Evelyne, through her lawyer informed the court that she delivered on January 25 and was not able to travel to Nairobi for the hearing since she needs at least three months to heal.  Mugambi at the same time declined an application by Obado’s lawyer Kioko Kilukumi to have the hearing which was scheduled for four days being adjourned to another date on grounds that he is unwell.  The magistrate ruled that the governor is being represented by more than two lawyers who can act for him in the absence of Kilukumi and directed that the hearing will proceed for the four days as planned.  Obado and his four children, Dan Achola, Scarlet Susan, Jerry Zachary and Evelyne are facing trial over alleged conspiracy to defraud more than Sh505 million from the county government of Migori.  Also facing the charges are businessman Jared Oluoch Kwaga, his wife Christine Akinyi Ochola, mother Penina Auma, brothers Joram Opala Otieno and Patroba Ochanda Otieno, and sister-in-law Carolyne Anyango Ochola.  The prosecution has also named their Misoft Ltd, Tarchdog Printers Ltd, Kajulu Business Ltd, Victorious Investments Ltd, and Deltrack ICT Services Ltd as the entities they allegedly used to siphon public funds from the county government.  Before the hearing was adjourned, the prosecution had told the court they were ready with the first witness Robert Cheruiyot Rono, an investigator with Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) who started his testimony last year but was stood down to bring some missing documents.   By Caroline Chebet | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago