Boda Boda Riders force their way in the middle of a traffic jam at the roundabout of Mombasa Road near General Motors, on Friday, 11, February 2022. [Samson Wire. Standard].  Whereas motorcycle taxis play an important role in society, including offering affordable and readily available transport in many areas across the country, their reputation as a group has been ruined by riders' involvement in violent crimes, including assault, burning of vehicles and robberies.  The most recent, and most gruesome case, involved riders' assault on a woman motorist in Nairobi just days before Kenyans marked the International Women's Day whose theme this year was to promote gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow and to end bias against women.  It was clear from the gory video shared online that the riders who attacked the woman motorist were motivated by gender bias. The event has left a blot in Kenya's collective conscience and showed that we, as a country, have a long way to go before we can address gender bias and eliminate prejudice against women.  Considering that this attack was a criminal case, the most urgent step authorities ought to take is to ensure that rogues behind the assault are brought to book. But this will only be the first step. It is encouraging that the Chief Justice has made a commitment that justice will be served swiftly to the offenders to serve as a deterrent and to send a message that there is no place for such criminal activity in modern day Kenya. Going forward, it will be critical for the police and the public to increase vigilance to ensure boda boda riders do not become a law unto themselves. Cases involving riders attacking motorists, pedestrians, shop owners and other innocent people have become all too common. Law enforcers should be equipped to deal with these cases decisively to ensure public safety. It is important that they act consistently and swiftly every time to send an unequivocal message that these acts of lawlessness will not go unpunished.  We also urge well meaning members of the public to stand up for men and women who find themselves under attack from rogue riders. Unless citizens stand up for each other, rogue riders will continue to take advantage of collective inaction to harass, attack and rob people at will. If we do not act now, we will have ourselves to blame when the menace gets out of hand.     By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago