The fire started from Mosonic and Madricada farms during preparation for planting season. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  A fire that began from two farms near Menengai Forest has torched at least 50ha of vegetation.  Strong winds fanned the fire that quickly spread to the forest at around 11am. The fire crossed over one of the fire break roads and got into a plantation with a mixture of eucalyptus and indigenous trees, including Kilelechwa bushes, destroying the 50ha.  Mr Erastus Gakono, the forest manager, said at around 12.30pm, the fire was uncontainable. “By 11am, I knew we were going to control the fire. But due to wind and the dry vegetation, the fire spread faster, causing havoc,” Mr Gakono told The Standard.  The fire began from two farms near Menengai Forest. [Harun Wathari, Standard] He said the fire started from Mosonic and Madricada farms during preparation for planting season. “The farmers were burning the vegetation on Saturday evening. We believe they were unable to control the fire and it spread to the forest,” he said.  Mr Gakono contacted the county government and the local Community Forest Association to contain the fire, but it overwhelmed them. “Fire brigade sent to put off the fire only managed to do so near the road. The public tried and managed the fire within the fields, but due to the wind, they could not contain it,” he said.  He said at some point locals fled.  The fire torched at least 50ha of vegetation. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Roads were demarcated to block the fire from spreading to the forest’s offices. Head of Conservancy in Mau, Mr George Njenga, yesterday said they were yet to contain the fire, adding that it was the first time in three years that the forest was catching fire. “This year it was different because the vegetation is dry and the wind fierce,” he said.  He said even with more fire engines, it would have been difficult to control the fire because “the fire engines can only put out fire near the roads, and it is not convenient”. He added: “The terrain in the area does not allow fire brigades to move faster within the forest and if the fire breaks in different areas within the forest, it would be uncontainable,” he said.  Mr Njenga said most forest fires were a result of human activities, especially when preparing land for farming. Some, he said, can even be caused by cigarettes.  Strong winds fanned the fire that quickly spread to the forest. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Nakuru County Commissioner Mr Erastus Mbui Mwenda said with the trend, the government might be forced to ban human activities near forests. “In the last three weeks we have experienced more than 23 fire outbreaks in forests, caused by human activities,” he said.  Nakuru County Environment Chief Officer Kiogora Mureithi said the county would ensure locals are informed on dangers of fires and actions necessary to ensure quick response.   By Mercy Kahenda | 1 hour ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 hour ago By Mercy Kahenda | 3 hours ago By Titus Too | 10 hours ago