There were rich commitments yesterday as President Uhuru Kenyatta led officials from member states in celebrating 50 years since the inception of the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep) in Nairobi.  While announcing measures to support UN activities, President Kenyatta said no effort should be spared in keeping climate change and other threats to the environment at bay.  The celebrations, graced by Presidents Mokgweetsi Masisi of Botswana and Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria, offered an opportunity to reflect on the hits and misses, with a promise by countries to provide resources and galvanise collective global action to conserve the environment.  President Kenyatta said Kenya would launch a global award scheme that will recognise entities championing peace and environmental sustainability as “we strive to offer exemplary leadership in conservation.”  We believe the pledges are timely, coming in the wake of renewed environmental threats in the form of climate shocks, biodiversity loss, desertification, drought and rise in pollution that have put livelihoods at stake.  The debate should now shift to full implementation of Kenya’s action plans towards climate adaptation and mitigation. Other than promoting responsible land use systems and sensitising communities, it must scale up involvement of county governments in promoting environmental management. It’s time to act. With water sources being degraded due to environmental destruction, recent studies suggest that the global economy is under threat. For instance, plastic litter in seas has led to a five per cent decline in marine ecosystem service delivery globally. This equates to an annual loss of $500 billion to $2.5 trillion (Sh52 trillion to Sh260 trillion) in the value of benefits derived from marine ecosystem services.  Kenya’s ban on plastic bags was well in order. Let us now consider what to do with other forms of single-use plastics, without forgetting to address other pollutants that contribute to carbon emissions. Statistics show that three in five households in Kenya depend on wood fuel for energy. This threatens forests. We should spread the word, provide political goodwill and focus on planet-friendly policies and investments.  By Editorial | 6 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago