Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, during Azimio Rally on 12th March 2022 at Jacaranda Grounds in Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has revealed that the Azimio-One Kenya coalition of parties had not considered who would be its presidential candidate.  He says when the coalition is registered as a political party and wins the August 9 presidential election, its survival will depend on the goodwill of the president in terms of honouring the coalition pact. This, he said in response to a question on the safeguards of the new deal considering what happened to his earlier MoU with Raila Odinga.  Kalonzo was speaking two days after more than 20 parties signed an agreement to join the Azimio One Kenya, and announced Raila Odinga as its presidential candidate.  In an exclusive interview with KTN News this morning at his Tseikuru home, Kalonzo said they will have the running mate discussions later. “We did not discuss those things. We have not discussed who is fit to be the running mate. What is in it for me does not matter. The question is what is in it for Kenyans. Yes, some of us are that selfless. The running mate discussion will be held later,” he told KTN News.  “The discussions of who is the running mate or not does matter at this point. Let us first secure the state,” he added.  Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka shakes hands with Raila Odinga during the launch of Raila as the coalition Presidential candidate at Jacaranda Grounds, Nairobi. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  In his defence, the former Vice-president also dismissed reports that there was a six-hour talk between him and Odinga before signing the agreement. The long talks were attributed to the late arrival of President Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka at the KICC.  “There were no six-hour talks as portrayed out there. I was the one who was kept waiting for Raila who showed up past noon and we (the three) went to KICC. I heard Raila was coming with people so I asked Gideon to come. We had been waiting for them. There is nothing like six hours talks,” Kalonzo said.  Kalonzo also disclosed that most of his political allies at the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) failed to show up for the signing at KICC on Saturday as a result of legal technicalities.  “Things were mixed up. I am sure all those secretaries-general, none knows what we signed. Azimio will be registered as a coalition of political parties. So the confusion came in when Junet proposed Raila to become ‘Azimio la Umoja’ candidate. We had agreed on Azimio-One Kenya,” he said.    Kalonzo also opines that the Saturday event was rushed in a confusing process. He adds that his allies at OKA opted to take a back seat before signing the agreement to assess the practicality of joining the pact.  “If the process was not rushed as it were then OKA would have come. For instance, my SG didn’t sign everything because some were for Azimio la Umoja parties, which Wiper is not,” he reiterated.  “That is why we have a meeting because none (OKA members) but Gideon Moi showed up. The whole process was confusing. Our legal minds should look into the legal technicality of the agreement,” he added.  When asked whether Martha Karua was willing to join Azimio-One Kenya, Kalonzo affirmed that Karua was willing to be part of the pact although she was a bit hesitant.  “OKA and Martha Karua is in Azimio. She is a bit hesitant and uncomfortable with the legal technicalities considering she is also a senior counsel. She has to weigh and establish if joining Azimio favours her and its practicality. If it is not to her advantage then she is free to say she cannot sign it,” he added.  When defending a past statement where he said, ‘I will be a fool to support Raila for the third time’, Kalonzo said he spoke at the time because he had an agreement document from 2017.  “I said I will be a fool to support him again because I knew the contents of the document I had in my possession. That is now water under the bridge. I answered that question when I made public the document we signed in 2017. Now I can peacefully sleep after letting it off my chest and telling Kenyans the truth,” he explained.  Months ago, Kalonzo had gone all out asking Raila to support his presidential bid as they had agreed and even made public the contents of an alleged agreement signed in 2017.  However, months later, Kalonzo shelved his presidential ambition and threw his weight behind the ODM leader Raila Odinga ahead of the 2022 General Election.  By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By Anne Atieno and Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 6 hours ago