ODM leader Raila Odinga, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his deputy Titus Ntuchiu when Kiraitu endorsed Raila at a night meeting with Devolution Empowerment Party delegates at Makutano in Meru on Tuesday. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has thrown his weight behind ODM leader Raila Odinga.  Kiraitu made the decision as Deputy President William Ruto's brigade led by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi launched a battle against him in Meru and Mt Kenya East.  Linturi has declared that he will be running for the seat on Ruto's United Democratic Alliance.  Kiraitu had previously said he was assessing who between Raila and Ruto he will support. However, on Tuesday, the governor said he had done his arithmetics and concluded that the ground was for a Raila presidency. During a meeting at the St Michael's Catholic Church in Makutano, Kiraitu and other Devolution Empowerment Party leaders including his deputy Titus Ntuciu, chairman Lenny Kivuti and secretary-general Mugambi Imanyara vouched for Raila.  The meeting came in the wake of news that Ruto will tour Meru this weekend. The DP has made frequent trips to the area.    In his visits, Ruto has insisted that the region was with him. Ruto's camp in the area has in the past expressed reservations that Kiraitu was taking too long to make up his mind to join their camp, prompting them to present a rival for the seat.  But Kiraitu and other party leaders insisted they were convinced Raila is the man for the job of leading Kenya. "People have been intimidating us. But we have assessed and seen Kenya is going to Raila," said Ntuciu.  Kiraitu said he had been in a long struggle for liberation with Raila and was convinced he had good intentions, especially strengthening devolution.  "He (Kiraitu) was my lawyer for a long time. We want to transform Kenya and eradicate poverty, illiteracy and disease," said Raila.     By Peterson Githaiga | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 10 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 15 hours ago