Retired DCI officer John Masawi and the Standard team feasting on wild fruits planted inside his forest in Charangany,Trans Nzoia County. [Christopher Kipsang,Standard]  When Mr John Masawi retired after more than four decades of working as a law enforcement officer, he knew very well that the environment he fostered years ago would welcome him back home.  At the slopes of Cherangany Hills in Trans Nzoia lies a thick forest of indigenous trees and wild fruits which has attracted various birds species.  The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed March 21 the International Day of Forests (IDF) in 2012. The day is marked to raise awareness of the importance of all types of forests. Mr Masawi, who retired from National Police Service, chose to use his time in retirement to conserve the environment.  After hanging his boots at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in 2021, he embarked on planting trees as his way of giving back to the community.  When The Standard team visited him at his four-acre farm in Kiboino village, Mr Masawi was patrolling the forest, keenly checking on the trees.  “Every day I take walks into the forest. I sometimes do it twice a day to just check on the trees. Any damaged or fallen trees are replaced immediately,” Mr Masawi explains.  The journey started in 1996 when he bought a two-acre piece of land after securing a bank loan.  Years down the line, he has increased the plantation to four acres, where he plants only indigenous trees.  “This investment has created a suitable environment for me to enjoy my retirement. Whenever I am bored or stressed, I prefer to take walks in the forest. It is therapeutic,” he says.  He reminisces that when growing up, the Cherangany area experienced heavy rains throughout the year due to thick forest in the nearby water tower.  “This area used to have plenty of rainfall. Along the way, things changed; trees were cut, especially indigenous ones. The trees were cleared to pave way for human settlement and as a result, today rains are scarce, and climate change is becoming a reality,” said Mr Masawi.  He said he chose to convert his land to a forest, not for financial gain, but to bring back the lost glory of Cherangany.  In his four-acre forest, Mr Masawi said he has planted over 5,000 indigenous trees with over 100 species, spending over Sh3 million.  To achieve his plan, he says, he sometimes spent more than half his salary to buy seedlings from as far as Maralal, Nairobi, Kitale or Eldoret.  He loves mahogany, Newton Brunus, African Olea, African satinwood, Meru oak, Elgon teak, Sisi champ for fruits others including Msemwa, and Msala Kwefujo in his local dialect.  In his forest also lies several streams, flowing across neighbouring farms.  He has also dug two large dams, a move that saw the county government of Trans Nzoia through well-wishers to construct two water points where locals come to fetch water for domestic use.  “When I bought this land, there was no water, in fact, locals used to carry water from more than four kilometres using donkeys. Five years down the line, the locals can access clean water,” he said.  By Nikko Tanui | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 12 hours ago