A section of Nairobi residents will experience water shortage for two days [Elvis Ogina,Standard]  A section of Nairobi residents will experience water shortage from Thursday, March 10 at 6am to Friday 6pm.  In a statement, the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company says the shortage has been prompted by a leakage that will lead to the total shutdown of Ngethu Water Treatment Plant in Gatundu North, Kiambu County.  “There is a major leakage on the raw water pipeline from Mwagu water intake along Chania river to Ngethu Water Treatment Plant which will necessitate complete shutdown of Ngethu Water Treatment Plant,” reads the statement in part.  Areas that will be affected during the repair period are the City Centre, University of Nairobi main campus, Coca Cola Factory, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, EPZ-Athi river, areas along Mombasa Road such as South B, South C and their neighbourhoods. Others are areas along Juja road road like Mlango Kubwa, the whole of Mathare, Eastleigh Airforce base, Huruma, Kariobangi, Pangani and Eastleigh. Areas along Jogoo road like Maringo, Bahati, Buruburu and surrounding areas.  Areas along Outer-ring road like Baba Dogo, Dandora, Umoja 1 and 2, Donholm, Fedha, Tassia, Avenue Park and Nyayo Embakasi. Along Kangundo road, areas such as Ruai, Kayole, Komorock estate and Njiru will be affected.  In Thika Road, Kenya Breweries, Kenyatta University, Kahawa Barracks, Kasarani, Mwiki, Kahawa Sukari, Garden Estate and Thome estate, will experience the water shortage.  Areas along Limuru Road such as Parklands, Ngara, Aga Khan Hospital, University of Nairobi – School of Law and City Park area, Gigiri, United Nations – Gigiri and Muthaiga.  Others are areas along Naivasha road and Kikuyu Road, Kawangware, Riruta/Satellite, Uthiru, Ndwaru Road, Mountain View, Kangemi, Uthiru and Waithaka.  The water shortage will also be experienced in areas along James Gichuru Road, Waiyaki Way and Lang’ata Road.  By Erick Abuga | 1 hour ago By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago