Diesel spill in Kanyamedha Estate on Friday, March 4, 2022. [Olivia Odhiambo, Standard]  Police have cordoned off the Kondele-Airport bypass in Kisumu after a major pipeline burst and spilled thousands of litres of diesel in the neighbouring Kanyamedha Estate.  The conduit ruptured at midnight, police said.  A contingent of law enforcement officers was dispatched to the scene to prevent residents from siphoning the fuel.  Police were dispatched to the scene to stop residents from collecting the fuel. [Olivia Odhiambo, Standard] The spilled diesel flowed into River Kisat.  Kisumu Central Sub-County Police Commander Tony Maina told The Standard that there were no casualties as a result of the spill.  “We are yet to be informed on the cause of the pipeline rupture, but we will communicate as soon as the cause is established,” he said.  In a press statement released at around 10:50am Friday, the Kenya Pipeline Company said it had contained the oil spill in Kisumu.  “The Kenya Pipeline Company wishes to confirm that today, 4th March 2022, at approximately 12:30am, an oil spillage was detected along the Sinendet-Kisumu pipeline at Kanyamedha area,” said the firm’s Managing Director Dr Macharia Irungu.  “KPC Emergency Response Team was then dispatched to the site and emergency procedures were immediately initiated; among them, containment and recovery of hydrocarbons by reticulation of the product back to pump station (PS) 28 in Kisumu to prevent it from spreading further.  “We urge the residents who are near the leak site to immediately keep off the area to enable KPC undertake the repairs to minimise danger. KPC is working closely with the Provincial Administration, the Police OCPD and other relevant arms of government to ensure safety of members of the public.  “We however wish to assure the public that the incident has not affected petroleum products availability both in the country and region. We have sufficient stocks for all the grades across our depots countrywide.  “We will continue to share regular updates regarding this incident.”  By Stanley Ongwae | 3 hours ago By James Omoro | 3 hours ago By Mark Oloo | 3 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 3 hours ago