Charcoal mound at a farm in Turkana County. [Bakari Angela, Standard]  After losing livestock to biting drought, several pastoralists in Turkana County have turned to charcoal burning to earn a living.  The months-long drought has caused scarcity of water and pasture. Delay in the distribution of relief food to vulnerable families has driven some locals to charcoal burning.  Local leaders have now raised the red flag, saying the continued destruction of trees will worsen the situation.  Authorities say the most affected are Kokiro, Liwan, Lokamarnyang in Turkana North and Napaitom, Nadome, and Lomelo in Turkana East. In Turkana West, Loreng, Kapetadiye and Nanam have had drought for over a year. Other affected areas are Loya, Lochor–Emeyan, Kotaruk and Urum in Loima sub-County.  Mr James Erot, from Turkana North, says he has lost 90 cows and 100 goats to drought since 2017. “All were emaciated and finally died after cycles of drought. When it rains, there is hope, but after a few months, another cycle of drought begins and animals die,” Mr Erot said.  He now sells charcoal at Sh400 a bag to middlemen, who resell in Kakuma and other parts of the county.  Mr Ekiru Loriu, also from Turkana North, told The Standard more locals ventured into charcoal burning in the last four years, as government relief food supply in remote areas delayed.  According to Mr Loriu, many pastoralists lost livestock after banditry worsened in pasture-rich areas near the Kenya-South Sudan and Ethiopia border. “A lot of vegetation has been cleared. After losing my cows, goats and camels, I can now feed my family,” said Mr Loriu.  Ms Ekai Etoot and Mr Alimlim Naro from Turkana West say they have been burning charcoal for over a year. Ms Etoot said he had made more charcoal sales for the last two years because the Lodwar – South Sudan A1 road was busy, hence increasing the number of buyers. “The biggest challenge has been getting trees to burn the charcoal. These days, we travel longer distances because we have exhausted trees in some areas that were near the road,” she says.  In Loima sub-County, Akeno Akimat, a mother of eight, says: “In charcoal burning, I earn whether it rains or not. My husband had many cows and goats, but almost all died. I discovered charcoal burning five years ago, I’m not turning back.”  Johnstone Maraka Ewala, a lawyer from Loima, said hunger may worsen after the August elections, as a number of vulnerable families get food supplies from politicians because of campaigns. “There is a need for the county and the national government to urgently intervene. Drought has caused despair and a solution is needed,” Mr Ewala said.  Former Petroleum and Mining CS John Munyes says the county government failed to initiate water projects to sustain locals and their livestock. “Many locals who depended on livestock are suffering. The county government has been ordering foodstuffs but keeps it in the stores for a long time. Large quantities of food expired before being transported to needy families,” Mr Munyes said.  Turkana Senator Malachy Ekal wants urgent intervention from national and county governments. He says continued charcoal burning and trading will result in a crisis, if not checked. “I think the county government has failed in its mandate. It should have done something to arrest the situation,” Prof Ekal said.  By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 days ago By Mike Ekutan | 8 days ago By George Kaimenyi | 11 days ago By Standard Reporter | 14 days ago