Ten people were injured and rushed to nearby hospitals after the Mutarakwa gas tanker explosion on February 14, 2022. [George Njunge, Standard]  As the body of Peter Kiarie, a victim of the Mutarakwa gas tanker explosion, was lowered to its final resting place, fear still engulfed members of the sleepy village.  The Sunday morning accident of February 13 still replayed in their minds, with any sudden loud sound reminding them of the explosion.  On this fateful day, a tanker which was transporting Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) from Mombasa to Kisumu tipped off on the busy, winding road at around 6am. As efforts were being made to pull away the tanker to clear the way for other motorists, the gas started leaking. A loud explosion followed, releasing clouds of smoke and scorching flames that burnt seven other vehicles.   Kiarie was among seven victims who escaped death, but sustained serious burns and was rushed to Kenyatta National Hospital. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) until February 25 when he passed on.   Kiarie was laid to rest last Wednesday after spending close to two weeks in the ICU. During his burial ceremony, family members who witnessed the tragic incident described the late, who worked as an attendant at a nearby petrol station, as a courageous man.  But even as Kiarie was laid to rest, villagers continue living in fear while recalling events of the tragedy. Worshippers at the nearby St Charles Lwanga Catholic Church said they fled, fearing it was a terrorist attack.    “The loud explosion left us confused as everybody ran, not knowing what was happening,” said one worshipper.  Jane Wanjiru, 76, who lives a few metres from the Mutarakwa scene, said she survived the explosion by a whisker after her children and grandchildren took to their heels.  “I was left alone. I locked the doors, went down on my knees seeking divine intervention to save my life,” she said, adding that whenever she hears any loud sound, it rekindles bad memories.   “We are still traumatised. You see the burnt trees and vegetation. It reminds of the tragedy that could have befallen the entire village,” said Ambrose Kimani, whose house was reduced to ashes.  Millicent Njeri a Psychologist attached to the Kenya Counselling Psychological Association in Nairobi attributes Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) to lack of psychosocial support triggered by stress.  “People suffer after they hear a slight sound, they repaint the picture of the fateful day on their mind, most of them saw death and this is what is happening again,” said Ms Njeri.  To avoid it, she said the villagers should undergo counselling before it is too late, adding that there is need for group-work sessions for each one to share their experiences.  “Anybody exposed to excessive shock or a traumatic experience suffers PTSD that should be dealt with immediately an incident happens. It is worrying that most victims are not counselled,” she said.  Several residents sustained injuries as they attempted to escape the explosion.  Njoki  Mungai, whose house is situated close to the scene of the explosion said she had just been discharged from maternity and her husband had left for work.  “It was by God’s mercy that we are alive today. If the scary incident would have happened at night, God forbid, we would not be here to tell the story of the unfortunate event,” Njoki said.     By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 hours ago By George Njunge | 4 hours ago By Timothy Kariuki | 13 hours ago By Standard Team | 1 day ago