CS Mutahi Kagwe. [Jonah Onyango, Standard]  Hoteliers at the Coast have welcomed the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions.  ''This is a positive decision coming at a time when we are approaching the Easter holidays whose projections have indicated a 60 per cent occupancy around tourist establishments," said Kenya Association of Women in Tourism (KAWT), Janet Chamia.  Chamia, who is also the director of the three-star Jacyjoka Holiday Apartments in Nyali, however, urged Kenyans to keep their guard against Covid-19 despite the end of restrictions.    ''All Kenyans have shown great commitment to keeping our country safe and this is evident from the continued low Covid infection rates,'' added Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) chairman, Jimi Kariuki.  According to Kariuki, the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions was timely.  ''The ease of restrictions will open up the economy and the tourism sector," said the Sarova Hotels and Lodges director, adding: "The removal of the requirements for international tourists to present a negative PCR result is a big win for our tourism sector.''  A position echoed by the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) coast branch executive Dr Sam Ikwaye who said that they appreciate the sector's partnership with the Health Ministry to curb Covid-19.  ''The reviews related to the protocols can gradually support the full recovery of the tourism sector in the region. Our neighbours lifted restrictions ahead of us and this has affected some of our businesses,'' said Sam Ikwaye.  Tourists at Jomo Kenyatta Public Beach, Mombasa. January 1, 2022. [Omondi Onyango, Standard]  While welcoming the move to relax restrictions, Mvita Constituency Development Fund (CDF) board chairman Omar Shariff urged the public to take the virus seriously.  "The government has done so much to keep Covid-19 at bay. We all have roles to play to ensure that we do not return back to mass infections by flouting protocol rules that are doable,'' Shariff said.  In Kilifi, Lucas Njuguna, who was laid off from a popular restaurant at the coast, said he is hoping that everything will revert to normal.  "When the government imposed Covid-19 restrictions, the food joint I was working for collapsed. My boss said he would call me back when things go back to normal," said Njuguna.  A tourist looks through binoculars at Ngulia Safari lodge in Tsavo. [David Gichuru, Standard]  According to chemist Julius Nyerere, the ease will boost small businesses. "We are grateful. Police used to harass and cart away the little cash traders get from their struggling businesses," claimed Nyerere.  Despite nations relaxing restrictions, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has maintained that such a decision should not be made in a haste.  WHO's Executive Director Health Emergencies Programme, Mike Ryan, said governments should make informed policy frameworks.  By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 5 hours ago