Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. [Samson Wire, Standard]  The national security multi-agency command centre on elections has been activated, Interior Cabinet Security Fred Matiang’i announced yesterday.  At the same time, security teams are engaged in mapping and formulating counter-strategies on election-related security challenges such as hate crime, cyber and computer misuse, terrorism and rustling.  “Aware of the challenges lying ahead, more security officers have been recruited and more equipment procured and deployed to beef up security while election-specific training is going on,” said Dr Matiang’i.   He was addressing development partners in his capacity as the chairperson of National Development Implementation Coordination and Communication Committee (NDICCC).  NDICCC held its second meeting in a series of monthly consultations with development partners from Europe, Asia, America and United Nations among others. The first meeting was held on February 14 during which Dr Matiang’i assured international partners of a smooth and peaceful transition of power after the August 9 elections.  Deliberations yesterday centred on the economy, drought and food situation, refugees marshal plan and security during elections.  After a two-hour closed-door meeting, Dr Matiang’i said development partners were so far satisfied with the government’s plans on the issues discussed.  The CS reportedly told development partners that critical election management materials, including security plan, standards operating procedures for peace security, election security management and guide to election security training manuals, have been developed and distributed to relevant teams.  On hate mongers, Dr Matiangi said 51 cases are currently under investigation and that there have been enhanced monitoring and crackdown on hate-related campaigns.  “The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has intensified activities across the country to promote peaceful electioneering and to foster inter-community co-existences,” said the CS in a press statement.  On the economy, Dr Matiang’i said indicators point to a quick rebound with services and industrial sectors showing remarkable improvements after Covid-19 negative impact.  “The economy is expected to stabilise at six per cent in 2022 boosted by a strong performance at 11.9 per cent and 9.9 per cent in the second and third quarters respectively,” said the CS.  He, however, lamented that the war in Ukraine is affecting the economy.  By Kipkoech Tanui | 25 minutes ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 4 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 12 hours ago