Mogil Secondary school bus that was attacked by unknown assailants as students returned from a field trip in lake Baringo. [Stephen Rutto, Standard]  Lack of political goodwill and sincerity among elected leaders along the Kerio Valley is to blame for escalating banditry and cattle rustling.  The incidents continue claiming hundreds of innocent lives every year. It is sad that instead of leaders in West Pokot, Baringo, Turkana, Samburu and Elgeyo Marakwet confronting the menace, the blame game is the order of the day whenever cattle rustlers strike.  Communities living along the valley have been subjected to untold suffering since no day passes without someone or people being killed and livestock stolen.  It is sickening that in the 21st century, huge resources are wasted in search of peace in the region; yet such should have been used in education, health, agriculture and water among other initiatives. Insecurity caused by cattle raids and banditry has impacted negatively on the socio-economic growth of pastoralists in the region despite the presence of hundreds of security personnel.  The region has suffered an increased number of widows, widowers and orphans while poverty levels have been skyrocketing. The recurrent attacks have scared away potential investors, despite the massive potential to transform the region economically. It is also unfortunate that security agencies are still applying the same methods in fighting the menace that has proved counterproductive. There have been several peace initiatives including what was then dubbed as ‘peace caravan’.  The partnership which involved the caravaners (MPs) local elders, community-based organisations, youth and women groups and the provincial administration led to the formulation of measures aimed at peacebuilding.  The peace caravan was to facilitate dialogue among communities living along the Kerio Valley. But the menace would have been contained had the leaders exercised honesty and spoken with one voice during peace forums and particularly when they retreat to their respective areas.  Security matters are a collective responsibility where everybody in society must participate to eradicate acts of lawlessness and engage in meaningful development initiatives. During ultimatums to surrender illegal firearms, the orders usually fall on deaf ears as leaders of the targeted communities always rally behind their ‘people’ and have the orders squashed as soon as the operation starts.  This indicates there is no honesty and sincerity among leaders in fighting the menace for reasons better known to them.  Today, there is a need to urgently carry out security operations to get rid of illegal guns, deploy Kenya Police Reservists (KPR), initiation of irrigation projects for the people to engage in farming instead of relying on livestock alone for their survival.  The writer is former Tot High School Principal   By Koki Muli | 1 hour ago By Isaac Kalua | 1 hour ago By Editorial | 1 hour ago By Mike Nyagwoka | 11 hours ago