Deputy President William Ruto (centre) flanked by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi (left) Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula (right) and other leaders receive blessings from the Maasai elders at Olopirik Farm, Narok County during Patrick Ole Ntutu's gubernatorial bid launch. [Rebecca Nduku, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of using the Mau Forest issue to incite and stoke division among the Maa community.  Ruto, who was campaigning in Narok yesterday, said the Azimio la Umoja presidential nominee rather than offering solutions in Narok was using a long-settled issue to pit communities against each other.  “They (Azimio) should stop inciting the people of Narok. The Mau Forest issue was settled a long time ago. The only remaining thing is to fence it,” said Ruto.  The eviction in Mau has been a sticking point between Raila and Ruto since 2009 when the Government set out to reclaim the land. Raila, then Prime Minister in the coalition government, led the Mau Taskforce that recommended eviction of the settlers, which Ruto opposed. Another round of evictions happened in 2019. Ruto said yesterday that the matter was over and done. He asked Raila to stop politicising the Mau issue and instead come to the people of Narok with policies. In what has now become a classic of Ruto’s campaign strategy where he both lauds and criticises the Government, the DP yesterday asked voters in Narok to choose him over Raila on the basis of the Government’s record.    Electricity connections  The Government had built hospitals, roads, water, and electricity connections in Narok, he said, and his government would build on that. He said in Raila’s years in office, including as Prime Minister, he had offered little and would not offer anything because he had no agenda and age was catching up with him.  “What did he do when he was Prime Minister? Did he do anything? I have built hospitals, roads and brought water and electricity. If Raila has not done it all these years will he do it when he is 80 years old?” Ruto posed.  Ruto asked for support of Narok voters as he vies to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta promising to make it easier for people to start and run businesses, as well as make it easier to secure funding. He reiterated that his government will put money in the pockets of citizens, beginning with providing jobs for the youth. He also said his government would carry on with the Big Four agenda and fund the programme with Sh100 billion.  He blamed Raila for scuttling the Government’s plan using his handshake with President Kenyatta. Ruto urged voters in Narok to compare his and Raila’s track records.  The UDA presidential nominee said he had performed better compared to Raila. He and Kenya Kwanza allies ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula encouraged voters to see that Raila was being imposed.  “Let no one sell you fear. The deep state is the vote you hold. Make your choice on the ballot and let them know that you will not give in to fear,” said Ruto.  Ruto was in Narok for the launch of Patrick Ntutu’s bid for governor on UDA ticket. Musalia said he and Wetangula had carried Raila since 2007 and after joining Ruto were relieved of the weight.  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Emmanuel Too | 2 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago