From left: Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi at Kalonzo's Nairobi residence. [SKM Media]  Wiper Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi at his home in Karen, Nairobi on Friday evening.  Kalonzo who has publicly endorsed Raila Odinga for the presidency in the August polls, inked his promise to support him [Raila] under Azimio-One Kenya Coalition  “We are Azimio - One Kenya and we will support former Prime Minister Raila Amolo Odinga for the presidency in the forthcoming August General Election,” he tweeted.  It was my absolute pleasure and joy to host the President of the Republic of Kenya H. E Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta and my fellow OKA Principal Baringo Senator @MoiGideon at my Nairobi residence yesterday evening. We pic.twitter.com/EARmIf9p24 Uhuru, Kalonzo, and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi have endorsed Raila as their preferred presidential candidate in the August 9 General Election.  The Head of State last Saturday said that Kalonzo’s sacrifice for the presidency would not go unnoticed.  “It isn’t that Kalonzo was incapable. He is very capable of becoming president but decided to support his brother Raila.”  Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka (l) hosts President Uhuru Kenyatta (centre) and Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi at his Nairobi residence. [SKM Media]  However, despite Kenyans and the political elite questioning Kalonzo’s decision to support Raila a third time, he has most recently averred that it wasn’t a personal decision but a collective one by all four OKA principals.  The former vice president said he had to bite the bullet once more for the sake of the Kamba community, to ensure that they have a stake during the formation of the next administration.  “There comes a time when one has to sacrifice his personal interest for the sake of the larger interests.”  “The next government, without doubt, will be formed by the three pillars of Azimio, with me being among them,” he said.  But even as the country watches the unraveling brotherhood between the duo, there are fears of a political betrayal.  Kalonzo, in an interview with Musyi FM expressed fears that Odinga could turn his back on the coalition agreement struck between him, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila.     By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By  Nzau Musau | 1 hour ago