Edwin Ochieng', the chairman of Bunyala Yala Ecosystem Site Support Group points at Papyrus plants that they planted to reclaim part of Yala swamp in Budalangi, Busia County. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  One of the early settlers in the 17,500-hectare Yala Swamp is the Abakhoone sub-clan, also known as “abalokera-igwena”, meaning “those who braved crocodiles to settle in the wetland.”  Crocodiles, monitor lizards and many other animals were in the past common at the swamp that cuts across Busia and Siaya counties, but today you will be lucky to encounter one. The monitor lizard and a number of fish and bird species are endangered in the largest freshwater wetland lying on the northeastern shore of Lake Victoria.  The Abakhoone and other communities living in the wetlands have since shifted to higher ground in Busia and Siaya counties due to flooding menace and the growing population. Some moved to Kisii while others crossed over to neighbouring Uganda. “The only reminder of human existence at the wetland are shrines. They left behind a number of traditional worship sites,” says Thomas Mango, a culture expert.  The shrines in the swamp include Ndekwe, linked to Abakhooone sub-clan, Bulwani that is linked to the Balwani and Abanyekera, Ayinga to the Abangoma as Iyanga is prayer ground for the Abayanga - all from the Abanyala sub-tribe that occupies Budalang’i Constituency.  The vegetation around the shrines appear intact compared with that around other sites of the swamp that is home to the endangered Sitatunga antelope, wetland birds and cichlid - fish species, endemic to Lake Victoria, but which has since been declared extinct in the larger water body. The Swamp has mayflies (Ephemeroptera), dragonflies (Odonata), oligochaete worms and molluscs. The swamp serves as a filter for two major rivers; the Yala and Nzoia which flows into Lake Victoria, arresting pollutants. It works best at its natural state like is around shrine areas. “You don’t just walk in the shrines anyhow, the communities that use them perceive the environment around them holy and won’t allow trespassers to mess with it because the vegetation around shrines appears intact,” says Busia Director for Environment and Natural Resources Mr Dennis Chirande.    “People fear the consequences that come with trespassing on shrine grounds and the belief has, in a way, helped preserve the wetland which is a rich breeding area for fish, monitor lizards and other animals,” he says.  Historically, communities would give up fishing for months fearing that the gods were having a good time in the swamp that harbours Lake Kanyaboli.  This helped replenish life in the wetland and especially keep the fish stocks intact. Then, the dwindling stocks that have come with over-fishing, use of illegal nets, emission of poison by industries into the water body and illegal harvesting of reeds in the swamp were unheard of.  But not everyone respects culture and beliefs or even is afraid of the consequences of messing with the environment around the shrines.  With the increasing population around the swamp, the people are slowly encroaching into the shrines. Environmental experts and activists fear the worst may happen.  “I have on occasions reprimanded women who harvest papyrus reeds that are not dead in the swamp. We don’t allow subsistence hunters in the swamp and especially around the shrines where the Sitatunga live. We control fishing and ensure no strange boats get into the waters,” says Mr Calvin Andira, the Namabusi beach management chairperson. “We have banned some from the swamp.”  Mr Edwin Ochieng’, the chairperson of Bunyala Yala Ecosystem Site Support Group, a formation that specialises in conserving the wetland and sensitises communities living near the swamp. “We talk to roofing grass and papyrus harvesters who harvest to the brim. We engage industries that release chemicals in the waters and ask where our people will fish if we destroy the very place where the fish breed. Where will we migrate to when climate change consequences hit us and we are forced to move,” he poses.  Yala is a critical carbon sink that contributes to global climate regulation, but it is choked with increasing human population, over-exploitation of its natural resources, habitat degradation and biodiversity loss.  His group has helped reclaim empty spaces in the swamp that has been invaded by illegal firewood and grass harvesters. They plant grass and papyrus to ensure its ecosystem remains intact. “The land use laws endorsed by the Busia County assembly will guide the use of the wetland. It will guide cultivation for food production and other development activities that often conflict with other services carried out by different stakeholders,” he says. “They will also help in mitigating climate change.”  The laws passed two weeks ago are conservancy-aligned and propose harsh penalties to those who degrade the area.  Similar laws are expected from Siaya County, where a dispute on the wetland between the county and a private developer who claims some 3,700ha of the swamp is threatening livelihoods and endangered species in it.  Siaya at one time wanted the swamp recognised as a Ramsar site so that it be placed under international conservation radar but the deal flopped.  “Despite its massive ecological services, the swamp is facing challenges that have seen its conservation wanting. The push to have it as a Ramsar site will enhance protection at all levels, starting from the counties, the national government and the international bodies,” Siaya County director of Environment Mr Gabriel Oduong said in a past interview.  Mr Ochieng’ however believes if well implemented, the local laws from the two counties would strike a balance to guide on land use that will support the livelihood of people, agro-industrial exploitation and biodiversity in the wetland.  By James Omoro | 3 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 18 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago