Deputy President William Ruto during a church service on Sunday, March 13. [Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto says he has forgiven his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta and left him to God for allegedly mistreating both him (Ruto) and his allies during his second term in office.  Addressing a Kenya Kwanza rally at the Thika Stadium,  Ruto accused the president of calling his allies names and chasing them from parliamentary committees.  "Umetufukuza kwa machama zetu za bunge, umetutita majina kama tanga tanga, wezi na takataka lakini nataka nikukumbushe sisi ndio tulitembea na wewe mwaka wa 2013 na 2017.  (You chased us out of parliamentary committees, called us names such as tangatanga and thieves, but I want to remind you that we are the ones who stood by you both during the 2013 and 2017 elections)," he said. Ruto added; "We have seen everything you have done, but because we respect God, we have forgiven and left you in his hands," said Ruto.  According to the Deputy President, Uhuru had concentrated on his succession plan at the expense of the Big 4 agenda which he says collapsed.  Ruto said what he got from the president's speech on Saturday  was that the BBI and the handshake were not meant to bring peace but to endorse a puppet or stooge successor  In addition, Ruto claimed the president's choice of a successor would fail miserably, alleging that ODM leader Raila Odinga would only protect the interest of a few individuals.  "I want to tell you my brother (referring to President Uhuru Kenyatta), that old man can only be a puppet to protect the interest of a few people. He has no plan to take this Country to the future. That project will fail miserable Mr President," Ruto continued.  Ruto used the opportunity to campaign for his bottom-up economic model saying he would cater for everyone, despite their social status, if he clinches the top seat.  During the joint Azimio NDC at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) on Saturday, Uhuru said Raila was the only one capable of uniting Kenya and moving the country forward towards prosperity and economic development.  “May God bless Raila, the fifth President of Kenya, to lead the country. I am confident Raila will move the country forward and ensure Kenya is respected globally,” Uhuru said.  By Hudson Gumbihi | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 11 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 13 hours ago By Standard Team | 16 hours ago