President Uhuru Kenyatta with Azimio la Umoja flag-bearer the Raila Odinga during a campaign rally at Jacaranda Grounds in Nairobi City County.  In five months, Kenyans will troop to the ballot box and elect a new president, signifying a transition of political power. The voters will also elect a new Member of the County Assembly, Member of Parliament, and Governor. The persons elected will shape the political, economic and social outlook of the country for the next five years. A lot is, therefore, at stake and every Kenyan must play their role.  The business community under the Mkenya Daima 2022 initiative have added their voice by calling on Kenyans to be involved peacefully and elect leaders of integrity. The business community led by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance underlined need for a peaceful transition of power, saying the country will remain even after the polls.  They said Kenya should continue being competitive to attract local and foreign investors so as to create more jobs and produce for exports. They said business abhors violence especially triggered by political contests. There is need for aspirants and their supporters to understand that in a competition, there are winners and loser, but that does not mean the end of nation-building.  After the elections, the business leaders noted, Kenyans will need access to healthcare, education and decent income-generating activities. This can only be achieved if they conduct peaceful campaigns now and elect visionary leaders. Post-election upheavals have previously dented the country’s economy, displaced hundreds of Kenyans and sowed seeds of discord among different communities. This time around, Kenyans must conduct this election differently. It can be done. Every so often, the electorate pick leaders with questionable character and lament for the next five years. This is the time to make the right decisions. Sift through the lies and propaganda being thrown all round and elect individuals with the right frame of mind and a vision for the nation, the county, the constituency and the ward.  The Independent, Electoral and Boundaries Commission, as the referee in this election, must also assure Kenyans of a transparent, credible and fair process. Individuals convicted in a court of law should not be allowed to vie in the first place. The IEBC should also conduct civic education and convince Kenyans on the importance of this critical exercise.  For instance, challenges such as rising food prices can be confronted by the character and ability of the individual elected as MCA, MP or Senator. The notion that only the president or governor can handle such matters should be done away with. Voters must understand the crucial impact all leaders make on their lives. The leaders picked on August 9 will determine whether there will be jobs, functioning health facilities and quality education.  Every Kenyan must, therefore, do the right thing. Elections will come and go, but life must go on.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago