A section of Uhuru Business Complex in Kisumu which was officially opened on March 30, 2022. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  The Sh350 million Uhuru Business Complex in Kisumu was opened yesterday.   The complex sits on Kenya Railways land and was done by the national government’s Housing and Urban Development department.   Construction started in 2019. It will serve as a retail market for fruits, cereals, vegetables and meat from local farmers. It will also be linked up with technical institutions, jua kali sector and the business innovation and incubation centre for the display and marketing of the products.  Yesterday, Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said the new market space will accommodate traders whose structures were demolished to pave way for the upgrading of the Kisumu Port.    “The market will also serve as a home to small and informal traders who were removed from the central business district triangle, Main Bus Park, Vunduba, Patel, Aga Khan, Noo Oroo, Kilimani, Kimute, Nairobi Road, Oile Park and Ondiek highway,” he said.  Prof Nyong’o added that the market can accommodate about 5,000 traders, and will have an impact on Kisumu’s economy by revitalising micro and small enterprises affected by the reorganisation of the city and Covid-19.   “This will result in additional job creation, improved livelihood and growth in the county’s revenue basket,” he said.  “The market has 20 open sheds that will be partitioned and fitted with lockable stalls and platforms to accommodate different sectors intended to utilise the space.”  According to the governor, various sectors in the market are to be zoned with clear signage for ease of identifying services and goods at various sections.   The business complex has adequate street lights and floodlights with a backup generator that would enhance security and promote a 24-hour economy.  It also has loading and offloading zones for wholesalers, parking space for customers, fire extinguishers, water tanks,  three main gates and nine pedestrian gates and a police post for security purposes.    He said the opening of the complex gates had finally silenced his critics.  “When we promised traders who were displaced by the expansion of the port that they would be finally accommodated in this new market, some people thought it was a joke,” the governor said.  “This is no ordinary project because it will from today, be a lifeline for thousands of small-scale business people and their dependents who have been praying for its completion. This project is a powerful illustration of what partnerships and collaboration between the national and county governments can achieve.”  County Commissioner Josephine Ouko said President Uhuru Kenyatta will commission the business complex at a later date.  By James Omoro | 15 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 19 hours ago By James Omoro | 22 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago