Rongai-Turi Dispensary which was constructed in 2003 but remained closed until March 10, 2022 when the county government opened it. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard].  Residents of Aldai village in Mosop Ward can now breathe a sigh of relief after a health facility constructed by the national government in 2003 was finally opened this week.  The unequipped Rongai-Turi Health Centre, sitting on a one-and-a-half-acre piece of land, has been gathering dust for the last 19 years as residents continued to trek for kilometres in search of medical services.  According to local elders, the journey to have a health centre in the area began 27 years ago when the community approved the use of the land for a health facility. However, they did not have funds to implement the project.  Mr Charles Rotich, an elder, explained that the dream came closer to realisation after enactment of the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) Act in 2003, which enabled government funding for its construction.  “We were very optimistic to have a local health centre after allocating the land. Financial challenges, however, limited us until when CDF funded its construction,” said Mr Rotich.  He explained that within months, the structure was completed, giving them hope that their long walks to Sumek, Elburgon and Rongai health centres would reduce.  “Our hope continued to fade away after we realised that only a building had been constructed. It was never equipped nor staffed, leaving it gathering dust,” said  Mr Rotich.  The community wanted the facility to have an outpatient, maternity and administration block, which would give them access to the most basic medical services before being referred elsewhere for specialised treatment.  “Pregnant women have been having a hard time seeking health services many kilometres away. Most of them remain home unsure of their health status and that of their unborn children,” said Mr Rotich.  Mr James Rono, another community elder, explained that access to alternative health facilities in case of emergencies remained a challenge over the years, citing poor road network connecting to their homes.  Their dreams were revived again with the coming of devolution which placed the role of setting up and running such facilities to the county government.  “It was around 2014 when the county government partly renovated the building but it remained closed. Opening up of roads, however, eased access to other facilities,” said Mr Rono.  The residents could not hide their joy as the county government finally opened the facility after further renovations, staffing, equipping and stocking it with medical supplies this week.  Speaking during the official launch, Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the facility will now offer maternal, infant and child health, family planning and immunisation among other outpatient services.  “The rural population comprises a sizeable number of elderly people, some of whom need constant medical services which are now closer to them at this facility,” said Mr Kinyanjui.  The governor called on residents to make it a habit to seek medical services, noting that majority of them seek medical attention when their condition has already deteriorated.  “Medical check-ups should not be for the sick but for all. Women have a positive behaviour in seeking health services. Most men only go to the hospital when they are very sick, a trend that should change for easier, quick and full recovery,” said Mr Kinyanjui.  By Julius Chepkwony | 23 seconds ago By Daniel Chege | 3 hours ago By Bakari Ang’ela | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 days ago