15 transformers, electricity cables, and conductors were recovered during the raid led by CS Monica Juma. [Twitter, @AmbMonicaJuma]  Kenya Power has recovered its stolen property worth Sh70 million at Kimbo in Juja, Kiambu County.  The raid at a nondescript homestead led by Energy Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma recovered 15 transformers, electricity cables, and conductors alongside other powerline material.  Although the masterminds behind the crime had not been arrested by the time this article was posted, the CS vowed police will promptly investigate the crime and bring the culprits to book  Kenya Power's vandalised property at a home in Juja, Kiambu County. [Twitter, @AmbMonicaJuma] It is believed that the powerline materials were stolen from Kenya Power sites in a highly organised syndicate involving technical staff.  According to Juma, the seizing of the materials following upped surveillance by police in collaboration with members of the public, who have been volunteering information, demonstrates that vandalism is a significant challenge to the provision of power across the country.  While terming the increased vandalism of key public infrastructure as unacceptable, Juma urged the public to continue volunteering information to help the government avert more incidents.  Juma led the raid months after President Uhuru Kenyatta banned trade in scrap metal due to increased cases of vandalism targeting critical national infrastructure.  Kenya Power's vandalised property. [Twitter, @AmbMonicaJuma]  The order stopped the scrap metal trade until proper guidelines were put in place to regulate the sector.  CS Juma warned that Kenyans who have occupied power wayleaves will not be tolerated for their occupancy poses a significant risk to their lives and property owing to the high-power voltage.  She said the reforms in the energy sector were bearing fruits resulting in low power tariffs and ultimately increased profits among manufacturers across the country.  By Amos Kareithi | 7 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 7 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 7 hours ago