Former Kenya Seed Company MD Nathaniel Tum at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption commission offices in Eldoret on September 14, 2021. [Standard]   Former Kenya Seed Company Managing Director Dr Nathaniel Arap Tum was laid to rest at his Soet farm, Kitale with many eulogizing him as the pillar in the seed industry.  Leaders from the political divide mourned Dr Tum as an outstanding seed expert who rose up from a low cadre to become the CEO of the seed processor.  Deputy President William Ruto, KANU party chairman Gideon Moi and Kenya's Ambassador to India Willy Bett were among leaders who mourned Dr Tum.  In his condolence message to the family, Ruto described Dr Tum as an accomplished manager and farmer whose contributions to the country's food security will be remembered. Kiminini MP Dr Chris Wamalwa delivered the condolences, while Nairobi Security Exchange chairman Kiprono Kittony read the condolences from Senator Moi.  Kittony eulogized Dr Tum as a leader who has left a mark in the seed industry, citing the expansion of KSC's activities in Tanzania, Uganda, and other East African countries.  "Dr Tum will be remembered as a pillar in the seed industry. He has left a huge mark in the sector and went out of his way to expand of KSC activities outside Kenya," said Kittony.  Dr Tum, Kittony added, was aggressive and hard-working, the reasons behind his success in his endeavour.  Soy MP Caleb Kositany said Tum was a key player in the industry and managed the seed processor before he was bundled out of office after NARC took over power in 2002 polls.  "I'm a farmer and Tum has been a key leader in the seed industry. He was keen in ensuring sufficient seed for the country and external consumption, and it was I know his problem started when Narc took over power," he said.  Legal redress  He accused the government of denying Tum his rightful share at KSC and forcing him to seek legal redress in court.  "Tum like any other Kenyan genuinely acquired shares at KSC, and it was unfair for the government to frustrate him," he said.  Tum's close friends and farmers claimed that Tum died as a result of frustration by the government while pursuing justice as a big shareholder at Kenya Seed Company.  "He genuinely bought shares at KSC, and it is wrong for the government to deny him his rightful share," said Dr Chris Wamalwa.  Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi assured the family that their pursuit of justice will succeed despite the death of their father.  "The family must receive the rightful share at KSC, and it defeats logic for the government to deny Kenyans justice," said Sudi.  Edwin Tum, described their father as a generous leader whose ambitions brought several changes in the agricultural sector.  Tum's close friend Job Ndemo said Tum died while pursuing to be paid dividends for the past six years.  Tum was at the helm of the giant seed company between 1980 and 2003 before he was sacked by the then agriculture minister Kipruto Arap Kirwa in the NARC government.  Before his death, Tum was in court battling with Kenya Seed Company management, seeking to stop the appointment of new directors.   After his removal from the helm of KSC, he battled in and out of court with the government seeking to stop the take-over. He also challenged alleged misappropriation claims, which were dismissed by the court.  By Kamau Ngotho | 25 minutes ago By Biketi Kikechi | 2 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 11 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 11 hours ago