Prof. Makau Mutua, spokesperson of ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential campaign. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Prof Makau Mutua, the spokesman of Raila Odinga 2022 presidential campaign team, has called on Deputy President William Ruto to forget about his boss Uhuru Kenyatta and go about his campaigns.  Speaking during an interview on KTN News, Mutua equiated Ruto to a man who was struggling to move on after being dumped in a relationship.  "A long time ago when I was a teenager, I was dropped like a hot potato by a woman I was dating. I spent a week in bed, wailing and crying and I thought the world was going to end.  "Mr Ruto is acting like that Makau of so many decades ago. Waswahili wanasema ukiachwa achika," Mutua said. The campaign's spokesman reminded Ruto that he was battling it out with Odinga for the August 9, elections and not the Head of State.  Mutua also expressed displeasure at the Deputy President's recent utterances against his boss and demanded that he show some respect.  "Mr Ruto has been attacking Mr Kenyatta, you have seen his ungoverned mouth going off on tangents that are not relevant...He is an inferior public official to the president. You cannot have equivalance there and the language he is using on his boss is quite unbecoming," he added.  Speaking to Mutomo Village residents in Gatundu South, Kiambu County on Friday, Ruto implored the president to quietly proceed on retirement.  The deputy president reiterated President Kenyatta had betrayed him despite his (Ruto’s) efforts to hoist him to presidency.  “Kindly ask him not to cut off my legs with the same knife that I used in protecting him in the previous two general elections. Ask him not to extend support to that man full of riddle talk (Raila Odinga)...  “Remind him that he and I knelt down to be prayed for by the clergy and his mum, Mama Ngina Kenyatta. Even if he doesn’t want to help me in my quest to become president, kindly ask him to stay out of the presidential campaigns so that I can defeat Raila Odinga.”  By Jacob Ng'etich | 7 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 7 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 7 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 7 hours ago