Mathioya MP Peter Kimari. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  The race for Mathioya Constituency is a crowded one with eight candidates eying the slot currently held by first-term MP Peter Kimari.  The aspirants are former legislator Clement Wambugu, Johnson Kihato, Edwin Mugo, James Wahome and Maina wa Maii. Others are Stephen Macharia, Kenneth Warungu and the incumbent, Kimari.  After the creation of the constituency in 1997, Maina Njakwe clinched the position defeating then veteran politician and Cabinet Minister John Joseph Kamotho of Kanu. It had been a sweet victory for the Opposition which wanted to keep Kanu out of parliamentary seats in Central region for the second time.  Kamotho dislodged Njakwe in the 2002 elections when the veteran politician vied on the ticket of the popular National Rainbow Coalition (Narc).  In 2007, Wambugu joined the race and represented the constituency for two terms after reelection in 2013 on TNA ticket.  In the UDA nominations, Embakasi Central CDF chairman Stephen Macharia will face Mugo and Wa Maii who was formerly in charge of the Water and Irrigation department in Murang’a County Government.  Kihato, Kimari and Warungu will tussle for the Azimio la Umoja ticket.  The constituency has been a political hotbed since it was created in 1997.  Bloody campaigns  It was carved from the larger Kangema that had been the political battleground of Kanu Secretary General Kamotho and John Michuki.  Since 1970, the larger Kangema witnessed bloody campaigns as supporters of the late Kamotho and the late Michuki fought for supremacy.  Mathioya is among the protected constituencies in Mt Kenya, alongside Othaya, Mukurwe-ini and Tetu in Nyeri, Ndaragwa in Nyandarua and Mbeere South and Mbeere North in Embu.  Dr Edwin Mugo, Mathioya parliamentary seat aspirant [Courtesy]  The concerns in the constituency range from water scarcity, high rate of unemployment, education, electricity, road infrastructure and illicit brews.  Residents want the construction of the 28-kilometre Murang’a-Kiriaini road completed.   In the past three years, the government has invested heavily in road projects and also completed the St Mary-Gitugi-Mioro road and water and irrigation programmes.  Also, the construction of the 540-kilometre Mau Mau road that passes through Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyeri and Nyandarua counties is a course for concern.  The road passes through the constituency, and is bound to open up areas hitherto considered undeveloped.  Residents are wondering if it will be completed within schedule and whether the next national government will continue with it.  Eyes are on former MP Wambugu, Dr Edwin Mugo and Macharia who have mounted intensive campaigns.  Kimari, who is seeking a second term, claimed that he has managed to deal with 75 per cent of the challenges the residents faced when he was elected.  Mathioya is the home to businessman-cum-politician Jimmy Wanjigi, Kiru Tea Factory chair Chege Kirundi, and lawyer Kamotho Waiganjo, who is also the husband of Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru.  Former KBC Managing Director David Waweru also hails from the area.  The incumbent said he has concentrated on the improving the education sector through renovation and construction of new classrooms, laboratories and modern ablution blocks, which were many public learning institutions did not have.  “Most of our roads under construction will be completed next year and that will ease transportation of goods,” said the MP.  He added that in his next term he will ensure that Mathioya gets a Level Four hospital to save residents who currently rely on the hospitals in Othaya and Murang’a.  Kimari added that he had done a lot of lobbying for funding of water and electricity projects that have improved living standards of the locals.  Wambugu said he is yet to decide the political party on whose ticket he will vie and is seeking advice from the residents.  “During my time, there were many development projects that transformed the constituency. I am duty bound to continue making Mathioya great.  I will be riding on my past success,” said Wambugu.  Warungu said his main agenda will include empowering the youth and persons living with disabilities because they had been neglected for long.  “I am interested in promoting the youth to ensure they get the required skills for their future,” said Warungu.  Work with professionals  Macharia said if elected he will focus on improving education standards and ensuring all learning institutions in the area are renovated.  “Rehabilitation of police stations, improvement of roads, and establishment of MP offices in the three wards will also be part of my agenda,” said Macharia.  Locals are looking for leaders who can work with the professionals in the area to unlock development opportunities in the villages and empower the youth.  John Mwangi, a resident of Kamune village, said leaders should be working with administrators and Nyumba Kumi elders to formulate programmes that are beneficial to the community.  Mwangi appreciated the role played by the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) in paving rural roads that had been neglected for years.  “We have seen people misleading the lawmakers due to their selfish interests, leaving the community suffering,” said Mwangi.  Mugo’s interest is the establishment of a sub-county hospital in Nyakianga complete with a medical training college and more emphasis on youth empowerment.  “Mathioya has been sidelined in terms of development. I have visited the majority of the areas and interacted with the locals who have pertinent issues that have been ignored by all the leaders,” said Mugo.   Kihato said he will work with the local leadership to ensure the community groups benefit from the CDF kitty.  “Having worked within the community for long, I will ensure the roadworks in the villages are awarded to community groups so the locals can be engaged,” said Kihato.  Maina, a former Murang’a County official said his agenda is to motivate  young people to venture in the economic empowerment programmes using NG-CDF resources.  “The youth have been neglected for long and therefore need to lead,” said Maina.  By Boniface Gikandi | 11 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 day ago By Nderitu Gichure | 2 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago