Some of the 16 Bodaboda operators at a Milimani court. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  A group of 16 boda boda operators linked to the assault of a female motorist will know their fate tomorrow if they will be remanded or not.  This is after the prosecution lawyers asked the court to grant them more time to conclude investigations.  A Milimani court will make a ruling tomorrow whether the 16 who are being held at the Kigigiri police cells will remain in custody for another 20 days.   The suspects were arrested following a viral video of boda boda operators assaulting a foreign female diplomat along Wangari Maathai road formerly Forest Road.  The lady, a Zimbabwean diplomat working for WFP is reported to have hit one of the operators at the junction of Limuru road and Wangari Mathaai road before she was roughed up.  The incident sparked public outrage provoking police and DCI to undertake a swoop.  Police reports indicated that some 32 operators had been arrested.  The 16 were presented before Magistrate Gilbert Shikwe under the miscellaneous application.  The investigating officer Inspector of police Lyvonne Mwanzia who is based at Gigiri said they are yet to record a statement from the victim and other witnesses.  Mwanzia told the court that she wants to get communication data from various communication providing services to use it in her case.  Following the incident, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a countrywide crackdown against rogue boda boda operators.  Interior CS Fred Matiang’i during a meeting with boda boda association officials said the president made the directive after the international community raised concerns.  As a result, a task force to streamline the entire boda boda industry has been formulated.  Matiang’i said all boda boda operators across the country will have to undergo free registration and be issued with smart driving licenses.  By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Samson Wire | 6 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 1 day ago