Businessman Ben Gethi and business partner Joyce Makena at a Milimani court. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Businessman Ben Gethi has been found guilty of using forged documents to win a Sh105 million tender to supply solar lanterns to the electoral commission.  Anti-corruption court chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi ruled that Mr Gethi, his business partner Joyce Makena and their company Solarmak Technologies Limited hatched a plot to defraud the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  “The prosecution has proved beyond any reasonable doubt that they forged a tax compliance certificate and a certificate of incorporation which the fraudulently uttered to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to be awarded the contract,” ruled Mugambi.  The magistrate also convicted three former IEBC officials; Kennedy Guanye Ochae, Gabriel Ngonyo Mutunga and Willy Gachanja Kamanga who he said colluded to help Gethi and Makena land the contract by altering the tender documents. According to Mugambi, it was the three IEBC officials who failed to comply with procurement rules and used loopholes in the commission’s procurement processes to commit a fraud and that due to their actions, a company which was not qualified got the multi-million shilling tender.  “They took advantage of the gaps within the IEBC procurement system and altered the tender documents in favour of Solarmak Technologies Limited. They colluded to change the price schedule submitted by the company and carelessly awarded the contract without due process,” he ruled.  Two other IEBC officials, Adan Katello Adano and Abdi Elema Ali, were however lucky after the magistrate found that they played no role in the scandal and acquitted them.  According to the magistrate, the scandal which happened at the height of the disputed 2013 elections could not have been uncovered were it not for the complaints filed by one of the losing bidders.  The prosecution said that sometime in 2012, the electoral commission advertised a tender for provision of solar lanterns to be used in the March 4, 2013 elections. Some 14 companies applied for the contract. Only two companies Solarmak Technologies Limited and Connections Limited seemingly met the criteria and proceeded to the evaluation stage.  The tender committee found that Solarmak Technologies Limited had the lowest bid of Sh105 million and awarded it the contract. Aggrieved by the decision, Connections Limited which had bid Sh107 million filed an appeal.  Their complaint is what triggered investigations and it was discovered that Solarmak Technologies Limited had no capacity to supply the solar lanterns, having been registered less than one month before IEBC advertised the tender.  “It is clear that the company was registered in 2012, just a few months before they were awarded the contract,” ruled Mugambi.  The magistrate directed that the five convicts be held in custody until today when they will be sentenced.   By Peter Muiruri | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago