Three witnesses on Friday testified in a case where a 35-year-old man has been accused of defiling a 15-year-old girl. [Getty Images]  Three witnesses on Friday testified in a case where a 35-year-old man has been accused of defiling a 15-year-old girl.  The minor who is a Class Eight pupil told Principal Magistrate Mogire Onkoba that she was in a sexual relationship with the accused, Michael Tazline Asengi, for about two months.  “I recall very well, in the month of March 2020, I was in a sexual relationship with the accused. I have been intimate with him about four times,” she said.  She further stated the accused person, had promised to give her money, but he never kept his promise. The prosecution was told that Asengi lured the girl with a samosa and that he was a close neighbour.  “Whenever I went to the latrine, Asengi would signal me and took me to the back of one of our neighbour's house and engaged in the sexual act,” she told the court.  The court heard that on June 22, 2020, the younger brother saw the two and reported the matter to their mother, who in turn threatened to punish her.  She told the court she managed to run away and never returned that night. The following day, two Samaritans found her and took her back home.  She added that her mother beat her up after she confessed to having an affair with the accused.  When she took to the stand, the mother, CJ told the court she had suspected her daughter was in a relationship with the 35-year-old.  “I have tried several occasions to bust them, but to no avail. My young son told me that he had seen the two of them and when she was brought home the following day, I beat her up and that’s when she confessed to me,” she told the Court.  She further said that she felt bad that her daughter had been sleeping with the accused and alerted the neighbours when she was found on that day.  She added that her brother saved the accused from an angry mob who were baying for his blood.  The area chief together with the village elder called the police officers from Baharini police station, who arrested the suspect.  The accused person and the minor were later escorted to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, where a medical examination was conducted.  Three other witnesses had earlier testified before the court.  Onkoba will make a ruling on March 9.  By Osinde Obare | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 10 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 10 hours ago