Ann Wanja, a businesswoman speaks to The Standard in Nakuru town on March 12, 2022, a day after mandatory mask-wearing was lifted by the Ministry of Health. [Daniel Chege, The Standard]  The government may have eased Covid-19 containment rules by removing the mask mandate but a section of Kenyans have chosen to wear them when outside their homes because it makes them feel much safer.  They claim that besides preventing the coronavirus, the face masks protect them from dust and getting air-borne diseases.  A day after the Ministry of Health eased the Covid-19 containment measures, a spot check by the Standard established that many Kenyans, especially those working in public places, visitors to hospitals and food vendors have continued to put on the masks.   We also established that food vendors on the streets and kiosks have kept on wearing masks and even using water and soap to wash their hands while others still carry hand sanitisers, which they occasionally use.  In Tana River, Ms Halima Wario who we found attending to a sick child welcomed the government's decision to lift the ban but said that the safety of a person was a personal decision saying that she will continue wearing the mask when she is in public places such as hospitals and markets.   "I will continue to put on because of risks and it will help me from inhaling polluted air surrounding the area that will cause me to become unwell," she said.  In Kisii and Kisumu, a number of residents could still be seen wearing their masks in public.  Some business people who were trading in face masks like Lydia Kemunto said that they were caught off-guard by the new directive announced by Health CS Kagwe.  Wearing her face mask, Kemunto said that on a good day she could sell at least 200 face masks at Sh10 each making around Sh2,000 per day which enabled her to cater for her basic needs. She now says she is worried.  “I wish the government could have alerted us one month ago that it was going to do away with face masks in public spaces. I know of a face masks distributor who recently received a huge consignment of face masks, where will he take them with the new directive?” asked Kemunto.  James Oyieyo, a businessman in Kisii Town was still wearing a face mask in town despite the new directive and said that despite the government lifting the directive on face masks in public places he was still wearing a mask because it protected him from various allergies.  Oyieyo, says the mask has not only made him prevent getting the Covid-19 virus but also helped in the prevention of dust, flu and common cold.  “If you ask around you will find out there were reduced cases of various infections with the usage of face masks, I would advise my fellow countrymen to continue using face masks where necessary since it is for their own good,” said Oyieyo.   Macrine Oloo working as a security guard in Kisumu town says despite the MioH directive, she still has to protect herself.  "I deal with lots of different people, coming into this building. I really do not know if they are infected or not, so I still have to protect myself."  Jared Otieno is a resident of Nyakach in Kisumu. He says he was not wearing a mask when he left his house and rode on his motorcycle all the way to Kisumu town.  He decided to visit one of the telecommunications shops to replace his sim card but was stopped by the security guards from gaining entrance until he wears a mask.  "I will be removing it shortly because I have already left that shop and will not be returning there,” he said.  John Ochieng, a security guard in Kisumu says he will maintain his mask as it protects him from cold, dust and also the Covid-19 which still exists.  He says that he likes his mask on and has gotten used to having it on and so he is comfortable.  A spot check by the Standard in Migori revealed that some faithful had their face masks on when going to church.  At Milimani SDA Church, about five worshippers had their face masks on until the church service was completed.  For some, the directive is a good news as they no longer have to walk around covering their nose and mouths.  "It was hectic walking around with a face mask. At least now I can walk without one. I at some point stopped wearing face masks when police stopped arresting people and would only put on a mask when going to the hospital," Ms Nancy Mwita, a resident at Migori town said.  In Nakuru County, a day after the government's directive, a number of residents were seen still wearing face masks.  Andrew Nyabuto, a resident said he will continue wearing the mask because there is danger that the Covid-19 cases may rise.  He said that until 100 per cent of Kenyans are vaccinated, he will keep social distance with people both in public and social places.  “The government should have lessened the restrictions when over 70 per cent of Kenyans have been vaccinated and not now. We should continue wearing masks,” he said.  He noted that Kenyans had forgotten how people died and others were in a comma for months over the virus, only two years ago, noting that other citizens in other countries are still wearing masks.  His sentiments were echoed by Ann Wanja, a businesswoman who said the masks blocks dust.  She said she is not sure about people who are vaccinated and those who are not and she will continue wearing masks.  Mask vendors termed the move by the government as discriminatory and a loss to their small businesses that have lasted since March 2020.  On the contrary Lawyer Mburu Koigi said he never loved wearing masks terming them dangerous at some point.   “We needed to breathe freely and the masks were blocking that. We survived before and during the pandemic and we will survive without the masks,” said Koigi.  In the North Rift region, Ekoine Juma is among Kenyans who still prefer wearing a mask even after he directive.  Ekoine told The Standard that since he started putting on masks, it has prevented him from the usual colds, flu, and dust.  "I don't see any reason why I should stop wearing a mask. It has prevented me from flu and dust. I will still wear it until the country is fully declared free of Covid-19," Ekoine stated.  Meanwhile, Milton Waswa is an excited man after the government lifted the mandatory use of masks.  He said some people take advantage of the wearing of masks to avoid being detected.  "Some people hide their identity by wearing masks. Sometimes it is difficult to spot a person who owes you money on the streets," argues Waswa.  By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 5 hours ago By Philip Mwakio and Marion Kithi  | 6 hours ago