Pamela Adhiambo lives in a tent at Nairobi's Mukuru Kwa Njenga slum. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Months after structures were demolished in Mukuru kwa Njenga slum to pave way for the construction of Catherine Ndereba Road, some of the displaced families still live in tents in the contested land.  A visit by Amnesty International Secretary-General Dr Agnès Callamard on Thursday revealed the pain and suffering of the residents whose houses were demolished.  Everlyne Mwende, one of the victims, said she is lucky to have her son Vincent Musyoki alive. Musyoki was shot in the chest.   Mwende said that Musyoki was on his way back home from tuition when he was caught up in the clashes between the police and the residents.  She said the residents were protesting the subdivision of the land by surveyors in December. “I was notified by one of his friends that my son had been shot,” she said.  Musyoki was rushed to the Cana Health facility in Mukuru Sinai where he received first aid before being transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital, where he spent a week.  The mother said that today, her son cannot do much because the bullet is still lodged in his body. She said the recommended medical checkups that her son is supposed to go for have affected her finances as she is only a casual labourer.  While addressing the residents, Callamard promised that Amnesty International will continue fighting for their rights.  The meeting was called to push the government to help construct houses for the displaced persons.  It also aimed at speeding up investigations into the loss of life and destruction of property and bringing to book police officers who oversaw the operations.  Callamard said she was shocked that Mukuru looks like part of a war-torn country. “This place looks like there has been a war yet Kenya is a democratic state,” she said.  She added that the residents do not have anyone else to blame for their woes except the government. “The State is the aggressor to the Kenyan people,” she said.  During the meeting, Lina Adhiambo, one of those who have been living in tents since December, said she was away at work when the demolitions were carried out.   By Fred Kagonye | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 16 hours ago By Samson Wire | 16 hours ago By Lilian Chepkoech | 1 day ago