Linsey Cherono scored 414 marks in the 2021 KCPE at Mountain View School in Nairobi. [Samson Wire, Standard]  All through primary school journey, Linsey Cherono and Lee Kiprotich never shared a classroom. However, the two scored 414 in the 2021 KCPE.  But last term, before the KCPE exams began, the two, then pupils at Nairobi’s Mountain View school, were encouraged to sit in the same classroom.  When The Standard caught up with the family in Nairobi’s Ruaraka estate, Cherono was in a celebratory mood, but it was evident something was amiss. Her brother was away in Kericho.   “I never imagined it, but had a feeling we would score the same marks. Besides, we used to study together,” Cherono said.  Kiprotich, who spoke on phone, said he was happy despite being away from his sister, who, he said assisted him a lot with revisions. “I’m happy because our efforts, hard work and collaboration paid off,” he said.  Their mother, Ms Elizabeth Katam, was overjoyed on learning that the twins scored same marks.  She checked codes several times to confirm that she was receiving the correct marks. “They have never scored the same marks,” she said.  Cherono was index 7, while Kiprotich was index 27.  The two tied in Mathematics, scoring 85 marks, and in other subjects had a difference of one or two points.  Cherono hopes to join Kenya High while Kiprotich wants Mangu High.  “We wish them well and hope their wishes will be fulfilled. The girl wants to become a neurosurgeon while the boy has shown interest in architecture,” Ms Katam added.  Linsey Cherono and Lee Kiprotich’s mother, Ms Elizabeth Katam (right). [Samson Wire, Standard]  Elsewhere in Lwak Girls’ Primary School, identical twins recorded exemplary performance.  Jesica Adongo scored 413 marks, emerging second in her class of 96 candidates, followed closely by her sister Josephine Apiyo with 408.  The school’s headteacher Sr Beatrice Vera attributed their performance to hard work and discipline.  Their father Mr George Oloo said: “Our twins have always been hardworking and focused.”  In Kisumu, there was joy and dance at MM Shah, Xaverian, Golden Elites, Mudasa and Arina primary schools as parents, teachers and pupils gathered after the results were released.  The mood was however less celebratory at Aga Khan Primary School, where the headteacher Mr Kerry Ouma said the candidates’ performance had dropped.  Records at the school showed a drop by four points from a mean score of 366.3 last year to 362.6.  Josephine Apiyo and Jesica Adongo. The twins scored 408 and 413 marks in the 2021 KCPE respectively. [Courtesy]  The top candidate at the school scored 410 marks, compared to 416 last year. “We expected to do better, but we accept the results and hope to improve in the next,” said Mr Ouma.  At Golden Elite Primary School, Amani Samwel scored 418 marks while Lakisha Tibbs got 418. The top candidate attributed their success to hard work and support from their families and teachers.  At Xaverian Primary School, headteacher Mr George Polo thanked staff and parents for their support, ensuring pupils passed with flying colours.  “To have 18 pupils with 400 marks and 100 score 350 marks and above is a great feat for the school. Congratulations to the pupils, teachers and parents for not giving up despite Covid-19 disruptions,” said Mr Polo.  Golden Elites Academy, Kisumu had 27 pupils score at least 400 marks. School Director Mr Charles Ochome, who doubles up as Kenya Private Schools Association national chair, said: “I can’t imagine the joy the children have given their parents. This is a result of hard work.”  MM Shah head teacher Mr Oriedi Okoth thanked teachers for adapting to the Covid-19 situation and ensuring pupils passed the exams.  [Additional reports by Mactilda Mbenywe, Olivia Odhiambo and Washington Onyango]  By Standard Team | 4 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 4 hours ago By James Wanzala | 4 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 4 hours ago