Archbishop Maurice Muhatia cuts a cake after being installed as Kisumu catholic Archbishop on March 19th 2022. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  The new Kisumu Catholic Archbishop Maurice Muhatia was yesterday installed amid calls on Kenyans to shun divisive politics ahead of the August 9 General Election.   During the event at Tumsifu Centre in Kisumu, Mombasa Catholic Archbishop Martin Kivuva, who is the chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, and Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owilli asked Kenyans to avoid tribal politics.  “The country is going through a lot, including hunger. We also have many family issues. Let us strive to make our country better. If we focus on becoming better as a country, Kenya will grow,” said Archbishop Kivuva.  “Let us stop hatred. For example, there are insecurity challenges Laikipia and Elgeyo Marakwet. It is during times like these that we need to preach peace. “Let us unite and make ourselves agents of good news by reaching out to those in areas that are experiencing distress,” he added.  Mr Wamalwa asked the church to be part of efforts to ensure a smooth transition of leadership after the August elections to avoid post-poll chaos.   He called on the church to partner with the government to ensure free and fair elections even as it prays for the country.  “I ask members of the clergy to also pray for politicians so God will give them the wisdom to watch their tongues and avoid utterances that can plunge the country into violence,” said Mr Wamalwa.  The CS noted that Reverend Muhatia had been instrumental in championing for peace in the country.  The Most Reverend Muhatia, who becomes Kisumu’s third Archbishop, took over from Archbishop Philip Anyolo who was moved to the Nairobi Archdiocese in November last year.  Rev Anyolo took over from Nairobi Auxiliary Bishop David Kamau, who stepped in as an Apostolic Administrator following the retirement of John Cardinal Njue in January last year.  Rev Muhatia was received by the Catholic faithful at St Joseph’s Milimani and St Theresa’s Cathedral Kibuye after making his entry through the Kericho/Kisumu border at Awasi on Friday.  Nuncio Hubertus Van Megen, Pope Francis’ representative to Kenya and South Sudan called on local clergy and Christians to support the new archbishop.  “The new Archbishop is a man of great of qualities who will no doubt lead the diocese well,” said Megen.  Nairobi Archbishop Anyolo said: “Muhatia is a shepherd who God himself has chosen. He will take care of the Kisumu Diocese very well.”   Archbishop Muhatia said he was ready for the task ahead.   “It is my duty to ensure Christians in Kisumu become the ambassadors of God and experience the multiplication of his blessings. I hope to improve the spiritual growth of the diocese further. I am grateful for the warm welcome,” he said.  Archbishop Muhatia is expected to preside over his first mass at St Theresa’s Cathedral in Kibuye on Sunday.   Pope Francis appointed Rev Muhatia to the Catholic Archdiocese of Kisumu in February. Until his appointment, he was the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Nakuru.  By Harold Odhiambo | 7 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 10 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 12 hours ago