KANU Chairman Gideon Moi during the NARC Kenya National Delegates Conference (NDC) 2022 at Ufungamano house, Nairobi on February 18, 2022 [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has indicated that Kanu will join Azimio la Umoja coalition which currently has Raila Odinga as its presidential candidate.  Senator Gideon who is also the Kanu party chair, spoke during the launch of Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda reelection bid on a Kanu party ticket.  “As Kanu, we are with you in Azimio. We are together. Very soon you will hear our announcement,” said Gideon at Kenyatta Stadium in Maralal town. "What is most important is that we stay as one irrespective of our differences in political ideologies."  Gideon, who is among the One Kenya Alliance principals had earlier met with Raila, the ODM party leader who later held a political rally at the same venue.  “I bumped into my good friend and patriot Raila Odinga on my way to Samburu for Naisula Lesuuda’s reelection campaign launch,” Gideon posted on Facebook.    The two leaders however did not share a podium in any of their meetings though Raila’s allies attended Naisula’s event and backed her candidature.  The senator challenged the residents to evaluate those seeking leadership before voting for them.  Gideon called on Samburu West residents to vote for Naisula saying that she had demonstrated great leadership skills during her first term in Parliament.  “You need to critically look into what a candidate intends to do for you as a voter before electing them. I beseech the people of Samburu West to vote for Naisula. She has rivaled many other seasoned leaders,” said Gideon.  The senator also condemned an incident in which a woman was physically assaulted by boda boda riders along Forest Road in Nairobi.  “Violence against women is uncalled for in this era. We are extremely saddened by the incident. We will not tolerate any forms of violence against women. It is unjustified whatsoever the cause,” said Gideon.  Naisula reiterated on the need for government and the society to speak out on social ills against women saying that they deserve equal treatment as men.  “We were supposed to be celebrating International Women’s Day,” said Naisula.  "However, this has come at a time we are in shock following unwarranted harassment experienced by the female victim in Nairobi."  The legislator described the act as cowardly noting that a large group of well-built men was attacking a defenseless young woman instead of following the law.  “I am happy that the government is apprehending the culprits. They should face the full force of the law to deter similar incidents in future,” said Naisula.  During his afternoon rally at the same stadium, Raila backed Naisula saying that women have demonstrated the capacity to hold leadership positions.  “We shall support women to hold elective seats in the coming election. We shall work together as Azimio parties,” said Raila as he paraded the two before the crowd.  Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua who is vying for Busia governors seat called on the community to reelect Naisula alongside Maison Leshomo, the Samburu County Woman representative.  “Leshomo and Lesuuda have done a commendable job to their people and in Parliament. Support these women to lead you for another term and expect unrivaled services,” said Mutua  By Josphat Thiong'o | 2 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 4 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 4 hours ago By Standard Team | 10 hours ago