A step-brother of the late businessman killed in Malindi said he was on his way to receive Sh23 million when he was lured to his death.   Mr Abdirahman Jiraw told Justice Ann Ong’injo that Mr Kassim Jiraw aka Sokorow, whose body was found in Arabuko Sokoke Forest in September 2017, had won a tender to supply x-ray foils and air conditioners to Kilifi County hospitals.  Mr Kassim had also supplied drugs to the Mombasa County. Mr Jiraw said he had lent Mr Kassim Sh3 million to secure the Kilifi tenders.  “My late step-brother called me and informed me that he was on his way to Kilifi County to get Sh23 million for the x-rays foils and air conditioners installation in the hospital in Kilifi,” said Mr Jiraw.  Mr Kassim had worked at the Mandera County government before he was retrenched, and was looking for a job with the Kilifi County administration.  During cross-examination by lawyer Jared Magolo yesterday, Mr Jiraw said he was not aware if Mr Kassim was going to meet MCAs.  Ngira Karisa Charo, Mandi Jilani (pictured) and Makonde Ruwa have been charged with Mr Kassim’s murder. Jilani has been cited as the mastermind who hired Charo and Ruwa to kill Mr Kassim over the tender money. The court heard that Jilani allegedly asked for Sh9 million from Mr Kassim to help him win a tender.  However, Kassim is said to have demanded back the money after Jilani failed to get the contract, according to the prosecution.  Some of the acid bottles identified by a witness as being found on the late businessman Kassim Jiraw alias Sokorow's body, during a hearing at a Mombasa High Court in Mombasa County on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Charo had said that Mandi planned to get rid of Kassim.  Yesterday, Justice Ong’injo issued warrants of arrest against Ruwa.  Senior State prosecutor Vivian Kambaga said Ruwa presented before the court fake hospital documents, claiming he was suffering food poisoning.  Pwani Medical Centre denied treating Ruwa and recommending a five-day bed rest.  In 2019 during the trial before Justice Erick Ogola, Charo confessed to participating in the murder and indicated that he strangled the deceased to death.  Charo alleged that Jilani hired him.  However, after being convicted to eight years in prison, he recanted his confession and claimed he was forced to confess by the police.  Charo further alleged that he agreed to make a false confession on a promise that he would either be freed or given a lighter sentence.  “I lied because CID officers from Nairobi threatened me. They drove several times from Malindi to Mombasa with me and I feared that something bad would happen to me along the journey. That is why I agreed to their demands,” said Karisa.  Jilani and Ruwa denied the charges and their trial is still on.  Karisa had during the trial testified against the two, saying he was coerced to kill, and that it was not his wish to commit murder.  By Willis Oketch | 1 day ago By Hassan Barisa | 1 day ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago By Benard Sanga | 3 days ago