A number of countries have started deploying advance teams to Kisumu ahead of the Africities Summit scheduled for May.  The advance teams are to hold preliminary surveying and research.  A team from Cameroon has been in Kisumu city for a week, making preparations for the country’s delegation.  About 150 people from Cameroon, including 10 governors, two ministers, 10 mayors from big cities and 30 mayors from intermediary cities, are expected to attend the summit.  The Cameroon team has requested accommodation for more than 140 delegates. Speaking during a press briefing, Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said the Cameroon team, had been cleared to fly directly to Kisumu by Kisumu International Airport manager Celine Gor.  “We have also discussed with this advance team the kind of cooperation we can have with them. They visited the port and also talked to officials of Lakefront Development Corporation. Since Cameroon is a water nation, we have a lot in common and this forms the basis of our future collaboration,” said Nyong’o.  Nyong’o said Tourism and Regulatory Board is satisfied that the region has enough hotels to accommodate guests.  The county has surveyed about 360 hotels which have 9,300 rooms that have been given green light by the Tourism Regulatory Board to host the participants.  Jean Aloise, the Cameroon urban director, said they are in Kisumu to make preparations for the big delegation travelling for the summit.  He said Cameroon has national day celebrations on May 20, 2022, and since they will be in Kisumu, they have to find a suitable place where the delegates can celebrate. “We have met different officials to prepare for meetings between our delegations and them. We are happy that the governor has assured us that our delegation can come directly to Kisumu which is better for us because we are a huge team,” said Aloise  Africities will be held between May 17 and May 22. The county is expecting about 10,000 guests.  The county government has released an executive order barring anyone from putting up campaign billboards or posters within the boundaries of Kisumu city until May 25.  OAOdhiambo@standardmedia.co.ke      By Harold Odhiambo | 1 hour ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 2 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 8 hours ago