Nyanza regional police boss Karanja Muiruri inspects the 126 motorcycles seized at Kisumu CBD on March 9, 2022. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  Police yesterday continued their crackdown on boda boda operators in most towns even as enforcement of the President’s directive upcountry registered minimal arrests.   In Kisumu, police impounded 126 motorcycles.  Nyanza Regional Police Commander Karanja Muiruri said 18 riders were arrested. “The motorbikes seized are awaiting inspection by The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) to check out on the roadworthiness and validity of their licenses,” Mr Muiruri said.  In Nyeri, County Police County Commander Adiel Nyange said the President’s orders were being implemented.  The chairman of the County boda boda riders association, Mr Charles Ndegwa said riders were tense but willing to work within the law.  In Murang’a, more than 30 boda boda operators were arrested.  The action by the police forced some of the riders to remove their motorcycles from the road.  County police commander Donatha Kiplangat said the crackdown will continue until sanity returns in the transport sector.  In Meru, boda boda association officials said there was no harassment so far but they expected police to swing into action in the next few days.    “Our members are well advised on how to avoid friction with the law enforcers,” said one official.  Police bosses declined to comment.  In Nakuru, a section of boda boda riders welcomed the President’s directive, saying it will streamline the sector.  Led by their chairman, Mr Mark Joseph, they promised to work with relevant authorities to ensure that motorcycle transport is safe.  “We want to assure the government that we will comply with any regulation meant to ensure the safety of our passenger,” said Mr Joseph.  In Bungoma, the county security team met with the riders’ representatives and urged them to handle themselves with decorum.  Bungoma South police commander Benjamin Kimwele urged the riders to join sacco societies and acquire valid driving licences as directed by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i.  Dr Matiang’i had earlier issued a 60-day ultimatum to riders to join saccos.  He also told the riders to ensure they have valid driving licences, insurance covers and adhere to traffic rules.  In Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga, boda boda riders went about their business as usual.  Nonetheless, the number of riders in Busia town was smaller compared to previous days and many of the boda boda shades were deserted with riders fearing arrest.  By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 8 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 8 hours ago