GSU officer Anthony Kilonzo (centre) is escorted outside Milimani courts after the police were granted 21 days to investigate murder accusations. [George Njunge, Standard]  A man who lost his wife and mother in a gun attack at his Katani, Machakos home told a court how he fought off the gunmen, before scampering for safety in a neighbour's house.   Fredrick Mwangi lost his wife Purity Wanjiru and her mother Ann Gatiti in the October 26, 2019 gate attack that shocked the nation.  Testifying before Justice L.W Muigai of Machakos High Court, Mwangi said he had just driven into his compound with his wife and her sister in law when they were met with gunshots.   “I remember we had two motor vehicles. After closing shop at 8 pm at Mlolongo we loaded goods from our wines and spirits meant for a shop at Katani which was maintained by my sister in law Roselyn Nyaga,” He said.  Mr Mwangi told the court that they arrived at Katani at about 9 pm and started offloading the goods from the vehicle to the shop, a process that took them about 45 minutes.  He said thereafter they proceeded home which was about three kilometres from Katani shopping centre.  “I am the one who was driving the vehicle. My late wife was seated at the front passenger’s seat. Before we arrived home, as usual, my sister-in-law called her late mother to open the gate for us. Along the way there was nothing suspicious until we arrived,” he said.  Mr Mwangi said after they entered the gate, his late mother in law started closing the gate as he drove to the parking lot.  “When my late mother in law was almost done with closing the gate, I heard a big bang followed by a series of gunshots. On my right side I saw the gunman wearing a raincoat resembling the ones worn by policemen,” he narrated.  He said when he tried to reverse the vehicle he heard the gunman shouting ‘Pesa munawekanga wapi’ while shooting.  “My sister-in-law managed to jump out of the car. I also jumped from the car through the passenger door, he said adding, “I rushed behind the gunman and held him. Got hold of his gun, tried to pull him towards outside the gate but he started shooting near my legs.”  Mwangi said outside the gate, there were rough stones which they fell on as he tried to muscle the gun out of the gunman before the gunman shouted a name ‘Eric kuja unisaidie. Kuja huyu jamaa anajaribu kuninyang’anya bunduki.’  Mwangi while standing in the witness dock used gestures to show the court how he combated the gunman.  He said suddenly Eric emerged and started shooting but when he reached where they were he stopped shooting and took a stone cutting machine and hit him on the forehead.  “When Eric started shooting again, one of the bullets went through my left shoe hurting my toe. I was also shot on the elbow before I fell down,”  said Mwangi.  He pointed out that when he tried to plead with gunmen not to kill him they asked ‘Pesa iko wapi’ and he pointed at the pickup.  The father of two, said as the gunmen headed to the vehicle, he disappeared to the nearest neighbourhood.  Mr Mwangi said it was his neighbour who took him to Katani hospital before he was referred to Shalom hospital.  “I did not go back to the scene,” he said.  Mwangi told the court that after he was discharged from the hospital, he headed to Chiromo mortuary where he identified the body of his wife.  He said he did not have any rows with his family. Both women have all been buried.  The accused person, Antony Kilonzo, a GSU officer is remanded at Machakos GK prison. The case is set to proceed on March 15, 2022.  By Phares Mutembei | 3 days ago By Paul Ogemba | 6 days ago By Peterson Githaiga | 8 days ago By Stephen Nzioka | 8 days ago