The family of Rael Aketch was full of hope when she left Mwichina village in Khwisero, Kakamega, for Saudi Arabia in search of a job in December.  The 37-year-old had promised to work hard and support her mother and two children.   But as fate would have it, Aketch died under unclear circumstances in Saudi Arabia where she had been working as a house help.  Her mother, Joyce Felesia Shitawa, is said to have collapsed moments after receiving the sad news.  The family said Felesia was taken to the Kakamega County Referral Hospital, where she was referred to the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Referral Hospital in Kisumu. She died as medical workers tried to save her life.  “After collapsing, she remained in a coma for four days and later died from a heart attack, according to the doctors,” said Jackson Matendechere, a relative.  “In Kisumu, medics discovered that she had high blood pressure, and the veins at the back of her head had burst, causing blood to leak into her brain.”  Mr Matendechere said the family received a report on April 5 that Aketch had a disagreement with her employer and had taken refuge at the South Damman Police Station where she allegedly killed herself inside the cells.    “How was she taken to the cells and yet she ran to the police station for her safety? Where did she get the rope she used to hang herself with and under what circumstances? How can you commit suicide at a place you feel you will be safe?”  According to the family, their efforts to have the body flown back into the country have hit a brick wall. They are appealing to the Foreign Affairs ministry and the Saudi embassy in Nairobi to help them transport the body back for burial.  The family said it was painful to lose mother and daughter at the same time.  “I’m saddened to lose my two close friends. I appeal to the government to help us bring the body of Aketch home and help us meet burial expenses,” said Rose Okiya, Aketch’s step mother.  The family also wants the agents who recruited Aketch to work in the Middle East interrogated.  “We are living from hand to mouth and we don’t have money to cater for air ticket so that her body can be flown home for burial. We have never traveled out of the country and we don’t know where to start,” said Mr Matendechere.  The family plans to bury Felesia on Saturday and then embark on plans of getting Aketch’s body brought home.  Liboyi Shitawa, Aketch’s elder brother, wondered why Kenyans were still dying under unclear circumstances in Saudi Arabia despite a pact between the two governments.     By Nathan Ochunge | 23 hours ago By Bernard Lusigi | 23 hours ago By Sharon Wanga | 2 days ago By Jackline Inyanji | 3 days ago