MPs Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Sam Atandi (Alego Usonga), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) and Dr Christine Ombaka (Woman Representative) have been declared winners in the just concluded Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party primaries.  While celebrating victories with their supporters, the winners appreciated the party's effort to conduct transparent elections.  They said the nominations they were subjected to are a lesson to the party and other politicians who fear competition.  In the Bondo battle, Ochanda garnered 10,771 votes against his competitors Andiwo Mwai who got 4,967, Thomas Obondo garnered 662, Fredrik Banja got 260 votes while Rachel Omollo got 241 votes.  In the Alego Usonga parliamentary race, Atandi garnered 17,789 votes against Dr Nicholas Kut who got 3,350 votes and Jackline Oduol who got 542 votes. In Gem constituency, Elisha Odhiambo won the ODM certificate for the parliamentary seat after he garnered 7,405 votes while his competitor Dr Jalango Midiwo got 6,384 votes.  Dr Ombaka bagged the ODM ticket for the position of woman representative against four other aspirants. She garnered 27,521 votes.  "I am sincerely surprised at the results but I want to thank the party for this transparent and fair election. I will not fail my supporters in my third term in office, Amidst the strong competition you have not embarrassed me, " Ombaka said.   Atandi urged his colleagues and other aspirants not to fear going for any election as this was the clear way of getting answers from the party.  "90 per cent of the aspirants will agree with me that this election was conducted freely and transparently. We did not expect this, " Atandi said.  He said his supporters had ensured he breaks the jinx of the constituency of being a one-term position.  Atandi said the number of calls he had received was a clear demonstration that the people of Alego were indeed ready for change.  Ochanda said the nomination results were a real lesson to the party.  "Elections are personal and people want to contribute personally to make changes. Despite the opinion polls and party subjecting some of us to direct nomination, we can clearly see what the real answer is on the ground, " Ochanda noted.  His counterpart Odhiambo expressed appreciation for free and transparent polls that were not marred with any violence.  "This is the first time we are having primaries that have gone well without any hiccups. With the little challenges reported here and there during the day, it did not affect the outcome of this election, the party has done well," Odhiambo added.  The party already handed a direct nomination to Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and his counterpart Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo who they had said had no competitors vying for the ODM ticket.   Senator James Orengo and EALA MP Oburu Oginga have been awarded direct tickets for gubernatorial and Senate positions respectively.   By Stephanie Wangari | 27 minutes ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 6 hours ago