Devolution Empowerment Party (DEP) Elections Board Chairman Rogers Ruthugua (third right) hands over a list of 134 candidates to DEP Secretary-General Mugambi Imanyara (second left) as Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Lenny Kivuti and other members look on in South Imenti, Meru County. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  The Devolution Empowerment Party (DEP) has finalised a list of candidates it has cleared for nomination by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission.  DEP’s National Elections Board, chaired by lawyer Mr Rogers Ruthugua, presented the list to the DEP’s National Executive Committee, which ratified it on Monday.  The only seat it will not be fielding a candidate for in Meru is Senate, after its initial suitor, Meru Assembly Speaker Mr Joseph Kaberia decamped to Democratic Party following power-sharing arrangements with other Azimio parties in the region.  The party will have candidates in 16 counties, but mostly in Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi. “Because that is where the party is strongest. It is a strong line-up. We have candidates in many counties, including in the Rift Valley, Coast and North Eastern,” said Mr Ruthugua. Governor Mr Kiraitu Murungi and his deputy Mr Titus Ntuchiu lead a list of 134 DEP candidates. In Embu, DEP governorship candidate is Mr Lenny Kivuti.  In Meru, the Woman Rep candidate is Ms Felicity Biriri, formerly a Kenya Pipeline Company director and chair of the Meru County Investment and Development Corporation, the investments arm of the county government.    Its parliamentary candidates in Meru are Mr Gideon Kimathi (South Imenti), Ms Carol Karimi Muriuki (North Imenti), Dr Kilemi Mwiria (Tigania West), Mr Mugambi Angaine (Buuri) and Mr Romano Mugambi (Igembe Central).  In Embu, Mr Stephen Ngari will fly the DEP flag for Mbeere North parliamentary seat, while Mr Dennis Munene will be its candidate in Manyatta.  The Embu Woman Rep candidate for the party is Ms Margery Wawira.  Incumbent Meru MCAs, including Ms Joy Karambu, Mr Dennis Kiogora, Mr Patrick Mwirigi, Mr Mutembei Mbiuki, Mr Robert Kithinji, Mr Adamson Muriki, Mr Kinyua Toribu, Mr Gervase King’ori, Mr Isaiah Kanyaru, Mr Gabriel Chokera, Mr Elijah Thuranira and Mr George Kimathi are among those vying on the party's ticket.  In Isiolo, the DEP team includes Mr Ken Mutuma, who will run for Senator, while Ms Lucy Mworia and Ms Jillo Mumina will run for Isiolo North MP and Woman Rep respectively.  The party will have seven MCA candidates in Isiolo.  By Joackim Bwana | 5 hours ago By George Maringa | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 15 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 23 hours ago