President Uhuru Kenyatta receives credentials from nine new envoys at State House, Nairobi. [PSCU]  President Uhuru Kenyatta received credentials from nine envoys recently posted to Kenya.  The President received diplomatic papers on Friday at Nairobi’s State House from Ambassadors Michael Lotem (Israel), Yeo Sungjun (Republic of Korea), Okaniwa Ken (Japan) and Abderrazzak Laassel (Morocco).  Others were Callista Jennie Mutharika (Malawi), Marie Charlotte (Philippines), Tareque Muhammad (Bangladesh), Gabriela Martinic (Argentine), and Christopher James Thornley (Canada).  Speaking at the ceremony, the President reiterated Kenya's commitment to consolidating bilateral ties with the new envoys' respective countries and wished them success as they begin their tour of duty in the country. “We are ready to strengthen relations between our two nations for us to create opportunities for our citizens,” Uhuru told the Israel ambassador.  He expressed optimism that during their stay in Kenya, the new envoys will help to further deepen the strong partnerships that exist between Kenya and their respective nations.  “I look forward to working closely with you. We want to see how we can improve on our partnerships,” he said.  On their part, the ambassadors assured the President of their determination to work closely with the Government in expanding the scope of bilateral relations between Nairobi and their respective capitals.  While presenting his credentials, the new Israeli ambassador to Kenya Michael Lotem said his focus will be on deepening bilateral relations between Kenya-Israel collaboration in research, agriculture, and security sectors.  “Our bilateral relations date way back many years and I will ensure that I consolidate the same for the mutual benefit of our people. Israel shares knowledge with Kenya on various fronts of development in areas of Agriculture, water, security and innovation,” Amb Lotem said.  On his part, the new Canadian envoy Christopher Thornley said his country appreciates the long-standing cooperation and partnership with Kenya and commended President Uhuru for his role in championing peace and security not only in the Horn of Africa region but the whole continent.  He assured the President of his Government's support in ensuring Kenya achieved its desired goals of peace and security within the region even as the country strives to build an inclusive society.  Also present during the brief ceremony were Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua among other senior government officials.  By Betty Njeru | 50 minutes ago By Daniel Wesangula and Joachim Bwana | 3 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 3 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 3 hours ago