Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) will hold primaries in only 12 counties for governor race as it resorts to consensus to avert possible acrimonious fallout.  In the Senate race, the outfit plans to have primaries through universal suffrage in 19 counties with plans to issue direct tickets in areas where aspirants have agreed to negotiate in settling on a candidate.  The party is said to be keen on having primaries in Ruto’s stronghold of Rift Valley, but has resorted to consensus in other areas.    The party’s National Election Board yesterday announced it will also conduct nominations in 27 counties in the battle for woman representative seats. In the constituency race, the party will hold primaries in 128 constituencies with voters also expected to cast their ballot in picking candidates in 892 wards.  "The board will conduct nominations in 12 counties in regard to governor seat. For Senate 19 counties will conduct nominations while 27 counties will nominate their women representative candidates," UDA elections board announced yesterday.  Yesterday, DP Ruto brokered yet another political deal by having Charles Matoke of Amani National Congress (ANC) to shelve his ambition for Kisii governor in favour of Ezekiel Machogu of UDA.  Okeng'o Joel Nyambane of UDA also dropped his Senate bid in support of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (UDA).  The DP’s strategy team has reportedly mapped out elective positions where they believe consensus can be reached, with those agreeing to step down being promised government jobs should Ruto form the government.  He recently brokered a deal that saw former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale drop his bid for governor in favour of Senator Cleophas Malala.  A similar deal was struck in Nyeri where Governor Mutahi Kahiga was assured of the UDA ticket and his rival Wahome Mwangi (Wamatinga) asked to vie for Senate.  The party has scheduled the primaries for next week Friday and has since begun recruiting clerks for the exercise.  NEB chairperson Anthony Mwaura confirmed use of consensus in settling on candidates without subjecting them to a competitive process.  “The nominations will be held in all electoral areas where there is more than one paid up candidate and other forms of nominations like consensus have not been applied,” said Mr Mwaura.  “In some areas aspirants opted for consensus therefore no nominations will be carried out there,” he explained.  The board said the outfit has since “contracted reputable election managers” who are currently undergoing training.  “The board will recruit a total of 47 Returning Officers, 128 Presiding Officers and 100,000 polling clerks to conduct this exercise,” said Mwaura.  He assured aspirants that they will not allow politicians to influence the recruitment exercise. This as the board sensationally claimed plot by their opponent to infiltrate the exercise with view of manipulating the outcome.  The board also warned its aspirants against engaging in electoral violence, stating that it will not hesitate to disqualify anyone found culpable.  We wish to caution aspirants that anyone found culpable of carrying out violence on fellow aspirants, especially on women aspirants, will be disqualified immediately.  By James Omoro | 5 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich and Brian Otieno | 11 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 14 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 15 hours ago