Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential contender Raila Odinga took his campaigns to Trans Nzoia County, promising the local farming community subsidies on farm inputs if elected in the August 9 polls.  Raila pledged to ensure farm inputs such as fertilizer and seeds are affordable and accessible to enable farmers to increase production and boost the country’s food security.  Addressing a rally in Kiminini, he noted that agriculture is subsidised worldwide as large populations depend on it for food and income, adding his administration will provide incentives to boost production.  “All over the world, agriculture has been subsidised. I will ensure that farm inputs such as fertilizer and seeds are available, accessible and affordable for farmers to enjoy maximum returns,” he said.  To boost the economy, the ODM leader said he will bring down high operational costs in the agriculture sector noting that growers have for long been left demoralized. He said he will introduce a health scheme known as Baba Care, where citizens of certain age brackets will be able to access health services with the government paying for the poor.  To make health services accessible and affordable, the former premier said level six referral hospitals will be established in all the 47 counties and level five facilities in sub-counties.  To scale down unemployment, he promised to create interest-free business loans for youth and single mothers payable after seven years.   Raila was accompanied by Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, former cabinet minister Noah Wekesa, Saboti MP Caleb Amisi and Trans-Nzoia governor seat aspirant George Natembeya.  Dr Wekesa lauded the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila, saying it promoted stability and development in the country.  He said the handshake meant well for Kenyans and the country.  newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke      By Sharon Wanga | 7 hours ago By Omelo Juliet | 1 day ago By Jackline Inyanji | 2 days ago By Nathan Ochunge | 3 days ago