Machakos County Governor Dr. Alfred Mutua and his Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana during a leaders meeting at Machakos Convention Center in Machakos County on January 12, 2022. [John Muia, Standard]  Fresh cracks have now emerged in the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition party, opening a new can of worms.  Eight political parties under a new entity–Mwanzo Mpya Caucus–led by governors Alfred Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Kivutha Kibwana of Muungano Party have made a new set of demands.  They are now claiming they were not involved in last Friday's signing of a new deal between Azimio la Umoja and One Kenya Alliance that led to the name change. The caucus now says it will rethink its space within the coalition  Addressing the press last evening in Nairobi, Maendeleo Chap Chap boss Alfred Mutua, who is also the Machakos governor, said the Mwanzo Mpya Caucus will walk out of the coalition if a few leaders will be making decisions without involving all parties that have signed to the Azimio deal. “We were not involved. We have not been given that document to go through. We are not even allowed to look at it for a long time,” Dr Mutua said.  Later in an interview with Radio Maisha, Dr Mutua said their caucus now wants the contents of the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition agreement re-negotiated so that they be included as the fourth main arm.    “It seems we are being told that these three–ODM Jubilee and Wiper–will decide where the rest of us will fit. We are not in agreement with that," he said.  Among the demands that Mwanzo Mpya is making is that there has to be consensus on all decisions made within the coalition, and the zoning of regions and allocating them to major parties should stop.  Mwanzo Mpya also want consensus on all nominations, and that the already deposited document be withdrawn. The caucus is also demanding that the issue of choosing a running mate should be done through consensus in the same way the flag bearer was selected.   Dr Mutua said the caucus will hold a meeting today for further consultations with the aim of deciding whether members of the caucus will pull out of the coalition.  Other parties that have come together under Mwanzo Mpya are Machakos governor hopeful Wavinya Ndeti's Chama Cha Uzalendo and Democratic Action Party-Kenya, which was represented at the presser by its secretary-general, Dr Eseli Simiyu.  This new development may lead to a fresh political fallout as parties scramble for positions ahead of the August 9 General Election.    The political union between President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and leaders of over 20 parties was consummated last month with the unveiling of a mega political coalition party.   By James Wanzala | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 6 hours ago