President Uhuru Kenyatta chairs the first Azimio-OKA council meeting at KICC. Looking on are Azimio Executive Council Secretary-General Junet Mohamed (centre) and ODM leader Raila Odinga (right). [David Gichuru, Standard]  The Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition has appointed an advisory panel tasked with finding a suitable candidate for nomination for the deputy president position.  The candidate will deputise the coalition's presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga in the August General Election.  The Thursday, April 21, Azimio-OKA Council meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta also resolved among other issues; to form a National disciplinary committee, a Coalition Election board, and an appeal board that will streamline issues before, during, and after the election.  Earlier, we reported that Kenyatta who chaired the meeting met leaders from both the Azimio and OKA camps at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) to deliberate on a myriad of issues as the coalition steps up its game ahead of the August polls.   In attendance of the first-ever Azimio-OKA council, were Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Charity Ngilu, Gideon Moi, Hassan Joho, and Raphael Tuju.  A source intimated to The Standard that the elephant in the room is the question of a running mate to deputise Raila Odinga.  Earlier in the week, the Azimio women’s league fronted Narc-Kenya Party leader Martha Karua as a potential running mate, while the OKA team want that seat reserved for Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka.  The gender factor has come up in the process, with the women’s league calling for the selection of a woman as running mate.  “We are going to start lobbying because everything for women is lobbying, everything for positions is lobbying. We are going to start that serious conversation in Azimio that we think the Number Two for Raila Odinga should be Martha Karua,” Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh said on Monday.  Kalonzo has, however, presented himself as the “obvious” candidate for the post having been a two-time running mate to Raila.   Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has also expressed interest in the running mate position.  Nairobi Governor politics  Also in their in-tray on Thursday is the issue of a running mate for the Nairobi Governor position.  Corporate genius Polycarp Igathe has now joined the governorship race, on a Jubilee ticket.  He joins the incumbent Ann Kananu, KNCCI boss Richard Ngatia in the race to secure the ruling party’s ticket.  ODM’s Tim Wanyonyi is also still in the race, creating a challenge for Azimio on who it will settle on to fly its flag in the Governor race.   By Augustine Oduor and Renee Were | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago