Emeritus Peter Kairu during an interview at his retirement home within Ringroad Estate in Nyeri Town, Nyeri County on April 24, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard  Retired Nyeri Catholic Archbishop Peter Kairu has remembered the late former President Mwai Kibaki as a humble politician who never spoke politics in church.  The prelate said Kibaki never missed a mass every time he was in Nyeri and that he was always punctual and never wanted recognition. Speaking at his Kamakwa home, the cleric noted that at times, he could personally ask the former President to greet the congregation but he refused, maintaining that he attended the church as a Christian and not as a leader or the President.  "Whenever we requested him to address the congregation, he politely refused saying he could interact with Christians outside the church," said the cleric.  While describing Kibaki as a true patriot and a Christian, Kairu said he has left an indelible mark for his commitment in service delivery. "He used to arrive at the church early in the morning. He was simple and a man committed to his Catholic faith," said Kairu.    The Archbishop who served in Nyeri Archdiocese from 2008 to 2017, when he retired, also hailed the late former President for his integrity and transparency. He said the departed president's intention was to serve, to uplift the living standards of the people and not to protect or to amass wealth.  "Despite serving the country for 10 years as president and serving the country in different capacities he never grabbed land or steal from public coffers," noted the retired Archbishop.  He also hailed Kibaki as a leader who was accessible whenever the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops wanted to see him and that he was open to criticism.  "He used to challenge bishops to hold the Government accountable and was open to rebuke. He will forever be remembered for his contributions to the country."  Kairu challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta's successor to follow the footsteps of Kibaki to revive the ailing economy.     By Brian Otieno | 25 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 35 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 40 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 45 minutes ago