Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Senator Kimani Wamatangi beat four other aspirants to win the UDA ticket for the Kiambu governor’s seat.  Wamatangi garnered 86,020 votes against his closest challenger Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina who got 57,568. Mr Wainaina has since disputed the results and vowed to vie as an independent candidate in the August 9 polls.  Mr Wainaina, popularly know as wa Jungle, dismissed Wamatangi’s victory, claiming the exercise was marred by irregularities.  “There was voter bribery which was widespread while election officials had been instructed by the party to favour one side,” he said as he stormed out of the tallying centre at Kiambu Institute. He further claimed that the image used against his name on the ballot paper was unclear.  Former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu emerged third with 15,177 votes.  The race for the Woman Rep UDA ticket was won by renown marriage counsellor Anne Muratha. Ms Muratha got 83,257 votes, Loise Kim came second with 67,644 votes while Emma Wainaina was third with 10,395 votes.  Acrimonious duel  Kiambu UDA Returning officer Ezra Kihara declared incumbent Simon Kingara the winner of Ruiru constituency UDA ticket after he garnered 4,777 votes after an acrimonious duel that saw nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura initially protest the results.  However on Saturday night, Mwaura conceded defeat and vowed to remain in the party.  In Kiambu Town, John Machua was announced the winner with 7,315 votes while former Lari MP Joseph Kahangara emerged victorious after he got 9,334 votes.  John Kiragu will fly the wheelbarrow party’s ticket in Limuru after he emerged winner with 11,306.  In Juja, incumbent MP George Koimburi will be the party’s flag bearer after he was declared winner with 6,790 votes. Koimburi won the seat on a People’s Empowerment Party ticket in a by-election last year.  In Gatundu North, former MP Francis Kigo is the UDA point-man after he bagged 12,092 votes.  Kiambu Woman Rep Gathoni Wamuchomba who contested for the Githunguri ticket emerged victorious with 11,487 votes.  UDA gave Alice Mganga and GG Kagombe direct nominations to contest Thika Town and Gatundu South respectively since there were no other aspirants the party ticket.      By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Benard Sanga | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago