National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi could be kicked out of the Democratic Party if a petition lodged against him sails through.  The petition filed at the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal seeks to have Mr Muturi ousted as the party leader after he joined the Kenya Kwanza coalition without discussing the decision with his party organs.  The petition filed on April 11 by Wambugu Nyamu, Daniel Munene and Kingori Choto further state that Muturi illegally assumed the position of party leader, despite resistance from members.    “The respondent had not paid the subscription fees and most importantly, he had not been a member of the party at least a year prior to the said appointment,” reads the petition. “The respondent has been running the affairs of the party in secrecy and has deliberately concealed information on the signed resolutions of the National Delegates Convention held on 20th February 2022.”  The orders sought by the petitioners include restraining Muturi from further discussing, ratifying, perpetuating or in any way promoting the purported coalition agreement with the Kenya Kwanza coalition or registering any document purporting to be a coalition agreement with the Democratic Party as one of the signatories until the matter is heard and determined.  The speaker was enlisted as a respondent together with Esau Kioni, Jacob Haji, Joseph Munyao and Joseph Mathai.  The complainants termed the coalition agreement a fraudulent usurpation of the authority of the NDC and other organs mandated to make decisions on behalf of the party.    According to the petition, resolutions made during the party’s NDC at the Bomas of Kenya bar the party from entering into any pre-election coalition agreement.  The petition also wants the tribunal to order for the freezing of the Democratic Party’s two bank accounts to allow for an audit owing to the alleged misappropriation of funds.  By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 4 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 4 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 6 hours ago