The Kisii Woman Representative race might turn out to be a repeat of the 2017 competition that saw ODM’s Janet Ongera clinch the seat.  The 2017 race was between the Jubilee and ODM candidates. Doris Aburi represented the Jubilee party while Ms Ongera was among the top ODM leaders who were seeking elective seats.  Both Ongera and Doris were participating for the first time in elective politics.  Ongera had been nominated to the Senate after the 2013 elections while Doris was working as a radio presenter.  In the 2017, Ongera garnered 165,885 votes (42.53 percent) against Doris’s 140,627 (36.06 percent). Doris and Ongera were set to face each other in the ODM party primaries but the party offered the latter direct nomination, forcing Doris to defect to the Wiper Party which is also an affiliate of Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition Party.  Other candidates who had applied for nominations in ODM include Jackline Karani, Eve Ogendo and Bridgit Ombati. Karani who has since moved to DAP-K.  Yesterday, Ongera said she was the most qualified in the race.    “Leadership is not about attacking other candidates but a show of maturity in the campaigns and preparing a working manifesto. I have delivered nearly 90 percent of all that I promised our people,” Ongera said.  Nominated MCAs Jane Justine, Josephine Ombati, Bathseba Sanaya, Risper Maseme, Zipporah Mogere and Jane Monyangi had rallied behind Ongera saying the party should honour her for loyalty, fidelity and commitment.  “These are important components of any party leadership. She has demonstrated this commitment, has never defected and upholds the the party ‘s core values,” said Ombati.  The leaders added that Ongera is a founder member of the party and has helped it grow it.  “Together with the Kisii County leadership led by Governor James Ongwae, they have built a vibrant party in the county in the last 10 years. It is the most populous and everybody is scrambling to get its ticket,” Maseme said.  Prior to the party primaries, Doris campaigned alongside Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati who was seeking to succeed Governor James Ongwae.    She believes that her leadership will offer change in the region’s leadership.  “We must embrace new leadership skills. Let us give a chance to generational change,” she said.  Doris says she will fund the education of poor but bright children through the National Affirmative Fund bursaries.  “There is no doubt that poverty levels in our country are high. We need to cater for these children and give them a chance to pursue their academic goals.”  She also plans to work closely with the county government in ensuring that water reticulation is achieved.  “We need to reduce distance covered by our mothers and children in search of water,” she said.  In her bid to help the disabled and the widows, she says she will establish a kitty to ensure that they access funds to start businesses.  “Kisii County has enough resources and all residents c an benefit. All leaders just need to work together,” Doris said.  The race has three new entrants: Jackline Karani (DAP-K), Terresa Oroo (UDA) and Peris Onsarigo (Jubilee).  Onsarigo was in Ongwae’s Cabinet while Oroo is a career teacher and widow of the late Bonchari MP John Oroo Oyioka.  Oroo participated in May 2021 Bonchari Constituency by-election and emerged third in the race.  It is not clear whether Ongera will join hands with other ODM candidates running for top-county seats in the campaigns.  Doris will be alone since the Wiper Party has not fielded candidates for other county seats.  Karani will join Prof Sam Ongeri (governor candidate) in the DAP-K party while Ms Oroo will join UDA’s Ezekiel Machogu (governor) and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (senate) in the campaigns.  By Harold Otieno Odhiambo | 6 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 12 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago