The County Government of Kisumu has ordered the painting of buildings in the Central Business District and surrounding areas with one colour in the next 14 days.  Kisumu becomes the second county, after Mombasa, to give such orders.  Speaking during the launch of painting of buildings in CBD, Governor Prof Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o directed that all buildings be painted lake blue and stripes of white as part of city beautification agenda.  The painting, Nyong'o said, is part of preparations for the ninth Africities Summit slated for May in the city.  The county is expected to host about 8,000 guests from around the world during the Africities meeting that will be held at the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium. The city is undergoing renovations and decorations. City Manager Mr Abala Wanga said of the colour choice: "Blue is the colour of the lake while white stands out and is attractive."  The painting in the CBD will be extended to the Kisumu suburbs of Milimani, Tom Mboya Estate and Riat Hills as well as the buildings on the major roads. “We have formally asked everyone owning a house in Kisumu CBD and the environs to paint them with lake blue colours and stripes of white,” Prof Nyong’o said.    Mr Wanga said premises of those who fail to comply will be closed indefinitely. “We will use any means to ensure the directive is adhered to,” Mr Wanga said.  He said this will not only improve the city’s aesthetics but also bring uniformity. "Cities that have done this are spectacularly beautiful," Mr Wanga said.  In 2018, Mombasa County administration issued a notice to residents in the CBD to have all buildings painted white and blue, which symbolises the Indian Ocean.   In order to enhance uniformity, Prof Nyong’o said the city administration was also working on ensuring that road pavements are painted lake blue with stripes of white. “We have a tight deadline and I am appealing to the owners of the buildings to cooperate,” he stated.  Prof Nyong’o also announced that his officers had initiated talks with the paint suppliers in the city to provide a workable discount to residents. He said in consultation with the Finance executive, waivers will be issued to buildings owners engaging in the exercise.   By Caleb Kingwara | 5 hours ago By Sharon Owino | 23 hours ago By Phillip Mwakio | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago