When James Bartengus, a police constable in Elgeyo Marakwet, suffered diabetes in April last year and had to undergo bilateral knee amputation, he felt his life and career were all lost.  Mr Bartengus, 49, had to undergo amputation barely two months after the diagnosis. His right foot was first amputated before his left leg two weeks later.  At first, the father of nine was reluctant to undergo the amputation and had chosen to brave the fight. But his legs got weaker every day and his wounds would not heal.  Mr Bartengus has served in the National Police Service for more than 20 years. He finally gave in to his doctor’s advice and took the bold step to the theatre, knowing he would never walk again.  “I could not believe I was once fit as a fiddle, but I could never walk again. That I would be dependent on people for my survival hurt me the most,” recounts Mr Bartengus, adding that losing his legs was traumatising.  He added: “The process affected me mentally because I am the breadwinner in my family and my nine children depend on me. With time and with my wife’s and boss’s support, I have gradually healed.”  Mr Bartengus is attached to Chepkorio police station, Keiyo South, Elgeyo Marakwet County. He has been unable to attend to his daily activities as a police officer after he was confined to a wheelchair.   After about one year of being wheeled into hospitals in Eldoret, Mr Bartengus has a new lease on life.  When medics at Reale Hospital on Monday fitted his ‘new pair of legs’, Mr Bartengus could not hide his joy.  “When my doctor informed me about prosthetic legs, I did not hesitate to try them out.”  His interactions with others in his situation proved to him he can live a normal life and walk freely.  Like Bartengus, many patients who have lost their limbs due to diabetes, accidents, cancer or congenital amputations lack information on how to acquire prosthetic legs.  According to Dr Peter Mwangi, an expert in medical prosthetics and orthotics, most people are not informed about the growing technology.    Help patients  Dr Mwangi says he has conducted more than 150 prosthetic procedures. He said some hospitals in Kenya have machines that make artificial legs and help patients go back to their normal routines without using crutches or wheelchairs.  Unlike the artificial legs that were used before which were heavy and expensive, medics can now make lighter, fitting prosthetic limbs in hospitals.  “The technology before used heavy substances such as timber and heavy plastic to make the prosthetic legs. Right now, we use metal which is lighter and easier to assemble.”   According to the expert, many people initially shunned physical disability rehabilitation services for fear of the cost and the fact that prosthetic limbs were not locally made.  He stated that importing prosthetic legs cost up to Sh900,000 which is not affordable to many people. Making one in the hospital cost around Sh100,000.  Mr Bartengus said NHIF catered for all his medical needs and prosthetics. Before, patients would be forced to pay cash to undergo prosthetic procedures. “The issue that affected many patients in the past is affordability, but now, hospitals have trained personnel and the necessary machines to make the artificial legs locally,” Dr Mwangi added.  The making of prosthetic legs begins with measuring the patient’s body to determine the knee length and the foot length. The process is then followed by a fabrication process that ensures the perfect fitting.  Imported components  According to Dr Mwangi, a challenge that medical technologists face is the heavy levies and duties imposed by the government on the imported components used to make prosthetics.  “Most of the components are not locally available, leaving us with the only option of importing from India, Germany, Italy, Turkey, the US, or China. The tax is very high, making this whole procedure quite expensive,” said Dr Mwangi.  Dr Eric Rutto, the medical director at Reale Group of Hospitals, said diabetes can block blood vessels, making it difficult for blood to circulate in the feet, leading to amputation.  “Bilateral below-knee amputation was done, and the primary disease is now under control.  “The rehabilitation department helps such patients by restoring their ability to walk. The patient will now undergo training and exercises for three months,” Dr Rutto said.  By Daniel Chege | 5 hours ago By Michael Saitoti | 5 hours ago By Kipsang Joseph and Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 5 hours ago