More than 300 people have confirmed participation in the inaugural Climate Action Conference and Exposition organised by Eldoret Water and Sanitation (ELDOWAS) Company in Uasin Gishu County.  The conference that focuses on strategic afforestation initiatives brings together corporate and other private collaborators towards conservation of water towers in the North Rift region.  “We are focusing on rethinking of conservation strategies within North Rift region. Water consumed in Eldoret is sourced from three counties – West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu and Nandi.  “We want to take a regional approach towards enhancement of conservation efforts,” said Mr Peter Biwott, Managing Director, ELDOWAS.  The conference themed; “Connecting Minds, Securing the Planet” starts today at Eka Hotel in Eldoret and climaxes on Sunday during the Eldoret City Climate Action marathon. Mr Biwott said objectives of the Climate Action Conference and Exposition is to ensure better understanding and build strong partnerships in ensuring climate action initiatives at the sub-national level are fast-tracked, as well as ensure national commitments are realised.  He said the initiative contributes towards the national development agenda under vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).    “Kenyans have positively embraced conservation approaches positively,” said Biwott.  “This is part of Eldoret City Climate Action Marathon and over 10 million tree seedlings have been planted since it was started, with another three million set to be planted in this year’s edition.”  Biwott spoke on Wednesday afternoon at ELDOWAS office in Eldoret when he received Sh2 million from Family Bank, the title sponsor, towards the inaugural climate change conference.  The MD also said an Eldoret/Iten water fund has been established towards the conservation of critical water towers in the region.  “The fund has seed money from ELDOWAS to the tune of Sh 260 million, and we urge other partners to invest in it,” he said.  Mr Joseph Mwaura, a Family Bank branch manager in Eldoret, said the Sh2 million support is part of the institution’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative in environmental conservation.  By Martin Ndiema | 12 hours ago By Christopher Kipsang and Edward Kosut | 12 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 19 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago