Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have vowed to shoot down the recently proposed Finance Bill by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani.  In the Finance Bill, a 16 per cent VAT will be imposed on wheat, cassava flour and maize. Additionally, the booming boda boda business, which has been a source of business for millions of youths, will also be jolted should lawmakers pass the Bill into law.  In the proposed changes, a unit of an imported motorcycle will be slapped with an excise duty of Sh13,403.64 compared to the current rate of Sh12,186.  Speaking at a Kenya Kwanza rally in Kiambu County on Sunday, Ruto and his allies poked holes at the Finance Bill, saying it does not project the economic situation of the common Kenyan, especially at a time when prices of basic commodities have shot up. They vowed to reject the Bill if it got to the floor of the House and rallied residents to support their bottom-up economic model and cast their votes in favour of UDA aspirants.  "In the recently read budget, some items like water, bread and flour will go up but we want to say that the bill will be shot down in parliament.   "In the event the bill still goes through in parliament, we will change it three months later to become more affordable to Kenyans," vowed Ruto.  The DP's sentiments were echoed by some of his allies, including Tharaka Nthi Senator Kithure Kindiki and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa.  "We are going to bring a supplementary budget to bring down taxes so that food can be affordable," said Senator Kindiki.  "We will not allow them to raise the standards of living so that they can get money to push their projects. We shall stand firm in the National Assembly to ensure that we bring down the cost of living for the ordinary Kenyans," added Ichungwa.  The Bill will be received by the National Assembly's Finance and Planning Committee before it is taken to the floor of the House.  By Philip Mwakio and Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 6 hours ago