The National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has joined the Kenya Kwanza Alliance, which is led by Deputy President William Ruto.  Muturi who is the party leader of the Democratic Party of Kenya (DP) signed the coalition agreement to effectively join the alliance on Saturday, April 9 at the Hermosa Hotel in Karen, Nairobi.  On hand to witness the inking of the deal, were party leaders Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford-Kenya) as well as several senators and MPs. Ruto said the agreement has been a result of months of consultations and highlighted the importance of the Democratic Party that was once led by retired President Mwai Kibaki.  “The joining of the Democratic Party to Kenya Kwanza is significant as they bring on board the economic conversation led by Kibaki,” he said.  Ruto said the August 9 General Election will be determined by the choice of economic policies to be decided by Kenyans.  “People of Kenya have spoken clearly. This election will not be about leaders and changing the Constitution, but to change the economy for Kenyans and job creation,” Ruto said.  Ruto once again took a swipe at the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) to ban the usage of popular political jargon under the guise of taming the rise of hate speech ahead of the election.     “Wale wanafikiria watatupanga kwa kutumia ‘Deep State’ na ‘System’, hatupangwingwi na hamtajua hamjui,” he said.  The DP said the Kenya Kwanza Alliance will shame the ‘Deep State’.  “The people of Kenya know how to speak and they will speak at the ballot,” he said.  Speaker Muturi revealed that he had consulted widely before joining the Kenya Kwanza Alliance.  “Kenya is bigger than all of us. I am happy after several consultations today we have realised that dream of working together and building a prosperous Kenya,” he said.  Speaker Muturi added that the heartbeat of many Kenyans was within the Kenya Kwanza Alliance.  Independence of institutions  Mudavadi said Muturi’s move was a clear indication of the independence of institutions and democracy.  “Last week, the Judiciary sent a very clear message that they stand to make sure the independence of institutions cannot be trampled upon by the Executive,” he said.  “Today, the head of the Legislative arm of Government is sending another message that democracy cannot be undermined.”  Wetang’ula echoed Mudavadi's sentiments, saying that the movement of the Legislature to the people has begun.  “The Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka is under Kenya Kwanza Alliance and today the National Assembly Speaker has also joined us,” Wetang’ula said.  “What is now left is a mirage called the ‘Deep State’ and the ‘System’.  By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 2 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 9 hours ago