Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala (left) and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale at Shianda area in Mumias East, Kakamega county during a Kenya Kwanza meeting on April 5, 2022. [Courtesy]  A storm is brewing in Kenya Kwanza over the planned consensus approach in picking the alliance's aspirants in Vihiga and Kakamega counties  Some aspirants are opposed to the arrangement being advanced by the alliance's top leadership.   Aspirants affiliated to United Democratic Alliance (UDA) and Amani National Congress (ANC) have been made aware that the alliance will field one candidate for each elective position. But the consensus approach is proving a hard nut to crack for Deputy President William Ruto-led UDA and Musalia Mudavadi's ANC, with both parties keen on bagging more elective seats in the August 9 polls.  So far, the alliance has been able to agree on a single candidate in the Kakamega governor race, where former Senator Boni Khalwale dropped his governor position bid in favour of Cleophas Malala.   Aspirants interviewed said they were fearing that the alliance could force them to drop their bids for various elective positions.  Dr Khalwale said ANC must be ready to cede ground and allow UDA to field candidates in some constituencies.  Addressing Kenya Kwanza delegates in Mumias East yesterday, Khalwale took a swipe at Mudavadi for allegedly demanding too much from his coalition partners.  "Senator Malala please tell Mudavadi that we are one team now and that he should not bungle the consensus talks we intend to use to secure more seats here in Kakamega," said Khalwale.  He added: "Having sacrificed my ambition for governor seat, we should look at regional balance and other factors when picking candidates."   Malala allayed fears that some candidates could suffer in the planned consensus. "We cannot have all the aspirants going all the way because we will lose to our competitors," said Malala.  By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago By Grace Ng'ang'a and Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 14 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 14 hours ago