Two MCA hopefuls from Migori County, who got one vote each in the April 18 ODM primaries, say they will run as independent candidates in the upcoming elections.  North Kanyamkago MCA hopeful Joseph Orony got one vote out of the 1,827 valid votes. The winner, Robert Onyango, got 803 votes. Boniface Otieno got 291 votes; Richard Solo (690), and Bernard Ogallo (42).  Kaler Ward Rep hopeful, Born Ogolla, got one vote out of 1,042 valid votes. The winner, Sammy Jura, got 311 votes. Kennedy Ochieng came second with 285 votes; Julius Rodho (263) and Peter Opiyo (183).  Born Ogolla, who netted one vote, told The Standard that he will run for Kaler Ward MCA seat in the August 9 General Election.  “Yes, I got one vote in these primaries, but I’m hopeful to turn around the outcome in August,” Ogolla said. Still in Migori, South Kamagambo Ward seat aspirant Wycliffe Odhiambo got two votes in a contest that had 10 competitors. The winner, Collins Agai, got 849 votes.  North Kanyamkago MCA hopeful Boaz Abwao got six votes, while the leading candidate George Omamba got 985 votes.  In West Kanyamkago, Godfrey Okiri got eight votes in a race won by Bernard Ouma, who got 1,690 votes.  In Kisumu County, North West Kisumu Ward MCA aspirant Anne Okusah got two votes in the ODM primaries. Her competitors Vincent Jagongo and Samuel Ombogo got 1,439 votes and 1,145 votes respectively.  Okusah’s close ally, who spoke to The Standard in confidence, claimed the results were “not accurate”.  “We doubt the poll outcome,” he said.  “The electronic voting devices sent to North West Kisumu Ward were not working. We’re surprised at how they got the results,” he added.  The informant further blamed poor voter turn-out on Okusah’s dismal display, saying her supporters had not taken to the ballot.  ODM officials in Nyanza, who spoke to The Standard, hailed the exercise as free and fair.  “The results that the aspirants got were accurate. They reflect the aspirants’ campaign efforts,” said an ODM official in Kisumu.        By Augustine Oduor and Renee Were | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago