Musician-turned politician Kevin Bahati was in earlier tears today, alleging that he has been asked to step down from the Mathare Constituency Member of Parliament race.  Barely a week ago, Bahati was given the Jubilee Party nomination ticket and cleared to run for the seat in the upcoming August 9 polls.  While addressing the media on Monday morning, the ‘machozi’ hitmaker said that he had been asked to recall his nomination certificate  to pave way for another Azimio la Umoja candidate  Much to his dissatisfaction, Bahati reiterated his intention not to step down from the race.   “I know that there is zoning in politics. Mathare has been zoned as an ODM area. For this one time, let us give the youth of this country and the Azimio la Umoja a chance,” Bahati told the media, fighting back tears. “Give the people of Mathare a chance to get the leader they have always wanted. These people of Mathare have suffered. I did not come to politics to get a job because I already had one. They deserve someone who understands them,” he added.  The gospel-turned-secular artist was quick to remind the leaders of his political formation (President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga) how he has been loyal to the Jubilee Party.  “I respect Raila and Uhuru Kenyatta. I am a big supporter of Azimio and Jubilee. I personally did over 555 stops campaigning for the president across the country. Please do not kill the hearts of the youths in Azimio,” a tearful Bahati pleaded.  "I cannot step down for someone that has not helped my people. Someone who has used Mathare to benefit himself. Someone who does not know the problems of my people,” he concluded.  While publicising his bid for the Mathare seat in March this year, Bahati said that he had been receiving requests from his constituents to represent them in Parliament.  Days before announcing his political ambition, the musician had released a new track featuring Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga dubbed 'Fire'.  He has also revealed that the song was done for free. However, Jubilee Party is yet to give an official statement on Bahati's allegations.  By Stevens Muendo | 5 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 5 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 6 hours ago By Peter Theuri | 12 hours ago