Wreckage of the matatu Nandi Hills MP aspirant Wesley Kogo was in after a road accident at Kangemi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  United Democratic Alliance party hopeful for the Nandi Hills constituency, Wesley Kogo, is dead.  He died in an accident in Kangemi, Nairobi, yesterday.  The police said Mr Kogo was the only passenger who died in the accident that involved a matatu and a parcel bus.  Kabete police boss Francis Muthui said the accident occurred at around 5.30am. Mr Muthui said the matatu rammed a Guardian parcel bus in an attempt to avoid a truck that had just joined the highway.  "The bus was taken for inspection at the  National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). It is part of the investigation to ascertain what exactly happened," added the police boss.  Mr Muthui said nine passengers were injured, adding that Mr Kogo was in the front seat of the matatu when the accident happened.  "The one who was seriously injured was rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment but died on the way," the police boss said.  The matatu driver sustained a fracture on his limb and was taken to Kijabe Hospital.  Mr Kogo sustained deep cuts around the nose. His dark green suit was blood-stained and torn.   Reports indicate that Mr Kogo was scheduled to appear on a morning Kass FM radio show in Nairobi.  The radio show host, Boaz Kemboi, said the station could not reach Mr Kogo on the phone to make final arrangements about the interview that had been publicised on Wednesday evening.  "When I called, I wanted to tell him the show had been rescheduled to 7.30am but he was unreachable," Mr Kemboi said.  At the City morgue, his body was booked as an unidentified person.  His cousin Mr Hillary Kosgei, who was among those who viewed the body, said the family was still coming to terms with the report.  Mr Kogo, 30, was seeking the Nandi Hills parliamentary seat on a UDA ticket.  Last November, he raised Sh1.6 million when netizens and residents of Nandi Hills constituency supported his political campaign.   By Too Jared | 45 minutes ago By Mate Tongola | 52 minutes ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 hour ago By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago