The Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) has warned against the consumption of children’s popular chocolate products by an Italian-based company, Ferrero.  Previous reports have indicated that some of the company’s products were called back in the European market and stock on sale withdrawn from shelves in stores and supermarkets.  The products include Kinder Surprise eggs popularly known as Kinder Joy by most children in Kenya, and which retail for about Sh120 per piece.  A publication by Business Daily on Tuesday indicated that the KEBS Managing Director Bernard Njiraini had said that the product was under investigation.  “Few samples of the products by the Italian firm sold in the Kenyan market will be tested for safety before we make the final decision,” the publication quoted Njiraini. Global media reports indicate that Kinder Joy has been linked to a bacterial infection known as Salmonella.  Infection with salmonella bacteria is caused by contaminated food or water and is most common among children. It infects the gut and can cause gastroenteritis.  Its symptoms include diarrhoea, fever, chills and abdominal pain.  On Tuesday, the Comesa Competition Commission also warned consumers against eating some Kinder Joy chocolates.  On the same day, Italian candy maker Ferrero had recalled some of its products from the European and United States markets.    The products recalled by the Italian-based firm include Kinder Happy Moments Milk Chocolate, Kinder Mix Chocolate Treats Basket, and Crispy Wafers Assortment.  However, the commission maintained that there were no reported cases of salmonella infections in Comesa markets including Kenya.  They clarified that the affected products had been manufactured in Belgium, where the bacterium was first detected.  “The Commission has also established that some Kinder chocolate products are imported and marketed in the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa. In consideration of the risk, some of the Comesa member States such as Kenya, Egypt and Sudan have launched a probe into Kinder products in their respective markets,” said the commission.  Then went on “The Commission would like to inform the general public to exercise caution and avoid the purchase or consumption of the above-recalled products, and return them to the point of purchase for a full refund,”  Moreover, the UK's food safety agency (FSA) also warned consumers against consuming Kinder Surprise products.  "We know that these particular products are popular with young children, especially as Easter approaches, so we would urge parents and guardians of children to check if any products already in their home are affected by this recall," Tina Potter, FSA Head of Incidents, said in a statement.  A report by BBC showed that at least 63 people among them children have fallen ill.  More cases have reportedly been recorded in Europe, including Ireland, France, Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, BBC added.           By Macharia Kamau | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 9 hours ago