During the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) conference in February, the Standard Group committed to a non-binding United Nations pact that encourages businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies.  As the world marks Earth Day 2022 today, The Standard Group has made considerable gains towards mitigation of climate change and championing environmental conservation.  In line with this, the company has launched an initiative dubbed Planet Action, which involves impact journalism that aims to create quality content to advocate for policy change and spur action that changes the course of humanity.  The Standard Group commits to providing a platform through which other stakeholders can collaborate to highlight individual efforts in mitigating climate change.  Through reporting on the subject, the Standard Group plays a dual role in highlighting the effects of climate change and engaging in partnerships that seek solutions to humanity's foremost challenge. Some of the initiatives include tree planting efforts, set to occur during The Standard County Golf Classic with the tagline; on the green course for a green course. Then there's the Fruity Schools initiative, where in partnership with Fruity Schools Africa, The Standard Group will plant fruit-bearing trees in schools.    Further, in a quest for sustainability and going green, the Standard Group has installed solar panels to power the company's daytime power-consuming activities.  "The company's average power consumption is 193 kWh. Through free energy from the sun, we tap an average of 180 kWh for seven hours each day; the 13 kWh deficit is then generated from the grid," said Robert Toroitich, the chief technical officer at the Standard Group.  "We plan to install a battery storage system in the future to power daytime and nighttime operations, but even as is, we are already saving 40 per cent of costs compared to previous electricity bills. I see solar as the future," said Mr Toroitich.  He urged organisations and even households to target having a certain percentage of their consumption powered by solar energy.  "It is not only cheaper but also environmentally safe."  By Mwangi Maina | 1 hour ago By Peter Muiruri | 3 hours ago By Nanjinia Wamuswa | 5 hours ago By Daniel Wesangula | 5 hours ago