Trouble is brewing in the Azimio-One Kenya Alliance after some political parties affiliated to the coalition wrote an objection letter to the Registrar of Political Parties, Ms Ann Nderitu, yesterday over what they said was breach of agreement.  In the letter signed by Mr Shakila Abdalla, the Wiper Secretary-General and his UDP counterpart, Mr Bernard Wafukho, the allies of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka claimed the coalition agreement deposited with Ms Nderitu on April 1 had been changed irregularly. As a result, they want her to suspend its registration.  According to the letter, the original agreement had only three clauses – affiliated to ODM, Jubilee and One Kenya Alliance, respectively. However, the amended agreement has four.    The allegation came a day after Maendeleo Chap Chap leader Alfred Mutua announced that he was offering himself to be the presidential running mate for Azimio. The Machakos governor also demanded that his party be recognised as a fourth pillar in Azimio. Mr Mutua said he was ready for a political truce with Mr Musyoka. By last evening, however, it was still not clear which party had been added as the fourth caucus.  In their second objection, Mr Musyoka’s allies also alleged that the Azimio Coalition Council – presumably its highest decision-making organ – had also been irregularly expanded from seven to 11 members to take care of the interest of the newly-added caucus.  They also questioned whether the coalition’s running mate candidate would also serve as deputy party leader as required by law.  “It is apparent that the agreement lodged on 1st April 202 (sic) was withdrawn and certain clauses amended or altered without the consent of all the parties and signatories,” the letter said. According to the letter, the amended deal was presented to the registrar last Saturday.  “Our objection is premised on the fact that three issues have not been agreed upon,” the letter said.  Mr Musyoka recently described himself as “the natural candidate” to be considered as Mr Raila Odinga’s running mate although it has been widely expected that the Azimio leader will pick one from the Mt Kenya region.  The letter now complicates the already fractured relationships in Azimio, which has in recent weeks been seeking ways to ensure the coalition remains intact even after it holds its nominations. Earlier plans to zone the country in favour of the various parties in the coalition were met with objections, prompting Mr Odinga to abandon the plan.  Sources within One Kenya Alliance (OKA), who did not wish to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter, told The Standard that the letter was genuine and that “what was agreed on on Friday April 1 at a meeting chaired by Raila had been altered.”  Another source said the allegations raised in the letter were “real issues that will need to be dealt with.” According to him, they are likely to be dealt with today.  By John Shilitsa | 4 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 4 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 6 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 9 hours ago