Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis casts his vote at St Solian Primary school in Eldama Ravine during the UDA nominations last week. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard  The battle for the Baringo governorship seat is slowly taking shape after the UDA primaries.  Former Governor Benjamin Cheboi trounced his competitors to become the UDA aspirant. Cheboi got 45,866 votes while Governor Stanley Kiptis got 25,976 votes.  Cheboi now faces a tough time ahead of the General Election as Independent candidate Sialo Kimiring and Chama Cha Mashinani’s Richard Koech seek to block him from being re-elected.  Governor Kiptis who has since protested the outcome of the primaries says he will give way forward tomorrow. Sources close to the governor said he might defend his seat on an independent ticket. Sialo, a renowned businessman and Koech, former Assembly Speaker are itching to give Cheboi a run for his money.  Koech, had earlier hinted at battling it out with other UDA aspirants but shifted camp to Isaac Ruto’s CCM party.    “I am going independent fully. I will focus on social and economic well-being of the people of Baringo,” Sialo said.  Sialo said his focus is on working with the national government to ensure insecurity in parts of Baringo North, Baringo South and Tiaty is addressed.  Locals, he said, are yet to benefit from the massive resources found in the region and it was time to explore the economic potential of the county.  “Baringo people are suffering, with about 20 per cent going to bed hungry. We will have a community system to capture them and provide a way to feed them so that time is not wasted on what they will eat,” he added.  Koech, on his part, said he is firmly in the race: “I am a man on a mission for this county. The journey has started and for those who won in the primaries, I welcome you. I am ready for the fight ahead.”   He said even with devolution, little has been achieved 10 years later.  On his part, Cheboi says having served as the first governor, and led the first county government he laid the foundation to improve the living standards of the people.  Cheboi who resigned as CEO at the Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) in 2013 successfully clinched the Baringo governorship under the URP ticket, having trounced CS Ministry of Labour Simon Chelugui.  By Judah Ben-Hur | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 3 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 3 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 11 hours ago