Yes, prices have gone up, but Putin’s Russia is the cause of this. [File, Standard]  Freedom of speech is a deeply cherished value for our international family of democracies. It is one of the core democratic values that link Kenya with the member states of the European Union. We greatly appreciate the energetic discussions in Kenyan media, including the (in)famous #KoT.  We may not agree with every view expressed, but we defend Kenyans’ absolute right to express their views as long as they do not incite hatred or violence, and do not break the law. Kenyans can openly criticise government and government answers. Social networks allow us to agree to disagree in marvellous new ways.    There is a downside, of course, to a digital space that is controlled by private firms and their algorithms for commercial gain. The result is that extreme opinions and emotional appeals are amplified whilst more measured views and arguments are submerged. This already happens as a matter of course when e-citizens globally engage on social media, even without the targeted misuse of information.  Right now, social media is being misused again. This time Russia’s propaganda machine is misusing it. Moscow is attempting to justify the unjustifiable: the unprovoked military attack by Russia on Ukraine. Ukraine is a sovereign State with a democratically elected government. Its men, women and children are being killed and maimed, its cities are being devastated, and the livelihoods of its people are being destroyed. The Russian State’s handbook of disinformation knows no bounds when it comes to detracting attention from what may constitute war crimes in Ukraine.  Russian propaganda  First and foremost, there is the vitriol against Ukrainians who are defending their country. The labels, which Russian propaganda has been applying to Ukrainians, are so risible, especially to anyone with knowledge of European history, that they do not merit repetition and comment here.  Then came the exaggerated allegations of widespread racism in Ukraine, without the counter-balancing reports of Ukrainians, desperate themselves, helping foreign students to flee their country. And now we are being treated to a heavy dose of Russian disinformation suggesting that the EU’s and others’ sanctions are the cause for high oil, gas, and food prices, globally and in Kenya.  Let us be clear: they are not! Ukraine and Russia are major suppliers of food and energy, including to Kenya. There are, however, no Kenyan sanctions and restrictions on imports from Russia and Ukraine, and nobody in the EU is hindering exports from reaching non-EU destinations.  It really is stating the obvious, but a country that has been invaded cannot export its 2021 harvest because its ports are being pummeled by Russian artillery; it cannot sow for its 2022 harvest because Russian tanks are tearing up its fields and attacking its people; it is struggling to feed its own besieged population, and therefore is not in a position to trade food with its partners, including Kenya.  Yes, prices have gone up, but Putin’s Russia is the cause of this. Without Russia’s aggression, none of this would be happening. Russia has weaponised the supply of food at a time when global food supply was already under pressure. The same applies to energy exports.  The EU has been at the forefront of efforts to try to end this conflict through diplomatic means and to hold Russia accountable. The EU has chosen to respond to the invasion by peaceful rather than military means: sanctions. With a military escalation in Europe, things would be even worse for Kenya and all countries globally.  Regrettably, the Russian Embassy in Nairobi has recently claimed that free media purges “alternative narratives”. Free and fair media does not “purge”. It will not present baseless accusations and disinformation as facts when they do not meet the standards of rigorous journalistic verification that exist in the free world. It does provide space for challenge and comment and free exchange.  Disinformation campaign  Should you want to find out more about Russia’s systematic disinformation campaign and techniques, the European External Action Service, the EU’s diplomatic service, has been monitoring the Kremlin’s propaganda for many years already.  You will find a regular analysis of Russian claims under @EUvsDisinfo or euvsdisinfo.eu. We know that despite all the challenges that the media sector in Kenya is facing, Kenya’s many professional journalists faithfully help us distinguish between facts, opinions and untruths. We respect them for that.  You have now heard our view, as Europeans close to the conflict. Now you, as Kenyans, need to make up your own minds.  In a free world, we all have the freedom to choose. That freedom comes with a responsibility to choose credible sources and remain alert to the wish of malign actors to distort the truth for their own selfish ends.  By Andrew Kipkemboi  | 1 hour ago By Wilson Sossion | 10 hours ago By Lynet Otieno | 12 hours ago By Edward Buri | 1 day ago