President Uhuru Kenyatta (L) and ODM leader Raila Odinga at a past function. [File, Standard]  The Azimio la Umoja Coalition Party has been gazetted by the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu.  The coalition brings together 26 parties that are supporting the presidential bid of ODM leader Raila Odinga.  The Party’s abbreviation will be “Azimio” and the slogan is “Azimio: Inawezekana”.  The symbol of the Party will be five stars against a blue background in the midst of the words Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition Party. The theme colours are blue, orange, and white, and the headquarters will be at Azimio House on Dennis Pritt Road, Nairobi.  The governing body of the Party will be led by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the chairperson.  The Party leader is Raila Odinga, Raphael Tuju is the Executive Director and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed serves as a Council Member and the Secretary-General of the National Coalition Executive Council.  The other Council members are Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, KANU chairperson Gideon Moi, NARC-Kenya Party leader Martha Karua and Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) Party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi.  Also in the Council, are Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, Taita Taveta Woman Representative Naomi Shaban and Abdi Noor Omar Farah.  The National Coalition Executive Council will be chaired by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and deputised by Eldas MP Adan Keynan, Ken Nyaundi, and David Murathe.  The Treasurer is Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, who will be deputised by Pokot South MP David Pkosing, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko and Lucy Nyoroka Mworia.  The Organising Secretary is Garissa Senator Abdul Haji, deputised by Igembe North MP Maoka Maore.  Junet Mohammed, who is the Secretary-General, will be deputised by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, Narok North MP Moitalel Ole Kenta, and Isabelle Wangechi.  The chairperson of the Women’s League is Nyeri Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu, the chairperson of the People Living with Disabilities is Makueni Woman Representative Rose Museo, and the chairperson of the Youth League is Solomon Kuria.  The parties that have joined the coalition party are: Jubilee Party, ODM, Wiper, KANU, NARC, Narc-Kenya, Muungano, Maendeleo Chap Chap, DAP-K, Devolution Empowerment Party, United Party Independent Alliance, United Democratic Movement, United Progressive Alliance, Pamoja African Culture, Kenya Union Party, United Democratic Party, Movement for Democracy and Growth, Kenya Reform Party, Chama cha Uzalendo, Party for Peace and Democracy, National Liberal Party, People’s Trust Party, Ubuntu People’s Forum, Party of National Unity, Labour Party of Kenya and Party for Growth and Prosperity.  By Timothy Kariuki and Jane Mugambi | 5 hours ago By Nzau Musau | 5 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 5 hours ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago