ODM candidates in Nyanza and Western counties who hoped for a smooth ride during the August 9 elections will now face off with new entrants fronted by the Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG).  Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o will face off with his predecessor Jacktone Ranguma as the latter joined the race through the MDG party.  Ranguma, an erstwhile critic of Nyong’o has now curved out another route that will see the two face off for the Kisumu governor’s seat.  Speaking after receiving his ticket, Ranguma said he is ready for the race and will take back the seat from the incumbent. “We do not have to be a sycophant to show that we support Azimio,” he said.  MDG party was formed during the 2017 election period as an affront by Orange Democratic Party (ODM) politicians who feared exclusion from the party to contest in the polls. MDG is presently in a coalition agreement with One Kenya Alliance, which supports Raila Odinga’s candidature.  The party is among the new members under the OKA team that signed a coalition pact to join the Azimio La Umoja Movement in March.  In Kisumu, Raila’s sister Ruth Odinga will also face off with a new entrant, Valentine Anyango Otieno, who has also been given a ticket by MDG to contest the Women Representative position.  Raila’s close ally Opiyo Wandayi will also not have a smooth ride to Parliament as MDG has fronted Francis Xavier Otieno to battle it out for Ugunja MP seat.  And in Busia, Mary Concilia Makokha of MDG will face off with ODM’s Catherine Omanyo.  MDG has also given a ticket to Lukalo Beatrice Afandi and she will face off with ODM’s Winnie Majani for Vihiga Women Representative seat.  In Siaya, incumbent Christine Ombaka will have a new competitor after Sella Ayimba, a veteran radio presenter, was cleared to contest the Women Representative seat under MDG.  Matungu MP, Peter Nabulindo, who secured the ODM party ticket will face off with Indikwa Maurice Buluma of MDG.  Current Butula ODM MP Joseph Oyula, will also square it out with Odhiambo Alfred Bwire of MDG.  Teso North Oku Kaunya, who is the current ODM MP will square it out with Enapat Ramaina Charles of MDG.  Aspiring parliamentarians, woman representatives, senators and governor on MDG tickets at the party's headquarters in Nairobi on April 21, 2022. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  In total, some 118 candidates received certificates to contest various seats through MDG.  MDG will present four candidates for women representative positions in Busia, Kisumu, Vihiga and Siaya.  The party will also field 11 candidates for MP positions. The rest, a total of 99 aspirants are vying for the Member of County Assembly (MCA) position across the country.  The aspirants will represent the counties of Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga, Kisumu, Homabay, Trans Nzoia, Kilifi, Kwale, Migori, Kakamega and Siaya.  MDG party leader, David Ochieng, said all the candidates have been cleared to fly the party flag.  Ochieng said he will defend his Ugenya MP seat under MDG.  Speaking during the ceremony, Ochieng said one of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals should be named Raila’s running mate.  “As part of OKA, MDG is still pushing for one of the OKA principals to become the deputy president for Raila Odinga,” said Ochieng.  Ochieng however, did not specify which OKA head he thinks would be fit to be Odinga's deputy.   Currently, OKA has four principals led by Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (KANU), Martha Karua (Narc-Kenya) and Cyrus Jirongo (UDP).  There has been much debate surrounding who will be handed the running mate title of the Azimio presidential hopeful with OKA leaders Martha Karua and Kalonzo Musyoka as the main contenders.  newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke      By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By James Munyeki | 7 hours ago