Auditions for the Ms President reality show were held in Eldoret on Wednesday. [Christopher Kipsang, Standard]  Nine candidates from Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, have qualified for the final auditions of the Ms President reality show, which was launched for its second season.  The programme is geared towards supporting women to take part in different spectrums of life by championing matters of politics and development in the community.  Media Focus on Africa Communication Officer Marie Claire Munyana said the competition attracted over 700 applicants nationally, but only 320 qualified for the final auditions.  “The 320 candidates are currently before judges for two days tackling current affairs questions. Fifty will be selected to represent the county during the grand finale to be held on April 4 in Mombasa County,” Ms Munyana told The Standard. She said the programme was using the auditions “to nurture and help women have voice in leadership.”    “For years, women have been perceived as the weak link in leadership. In many communities, women are not given any space in a decision-making table and this is the chance and opportunity.”  Among the main criteria for one to qualify for the auditions include age, with participants aged between 20 and 60, a college diploma, and being bold enough to stand for leadership.  “We are looking for people who can learn faster and be able to articulate and discuss issues objectively,” Ms Munyana said.  After the conclusion of the first edition, Ms Munyana said the finalists are currently playing “huge roles” in the society.  “In the forthcoming 2022 General Election, we will see women eyeing political seats and taking leadership positions in our communities,” said Ms Munyana, adding that Maryann Omondi, the sitting Ms President, is eyeing the Karachuonyo parliamentary seat.  Lilian Kasese, who made it through the auditions, said that apart from eyeing the Ms President position, the experience had given her an opportunity to meet other like-minded women in the community.  “The experience was nice. The panel has been lively and questions were impressive. Today has been part of my learning experience, and meeting with Kenyan ladies whom we share the same aspirations,” said Ms Kasese.     By Isaiah Gwengi | 2 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 12 hours ago