Bonchari MP Pavel Oimeke has criticised ODM for denying him a ticket to defend his seat in the August election.  Oimeke said it was a sad day for the Abanchari clan of the Gusii community since the legislator they elected 11 months ago was being kicked out from a party they have supported and believed in for years.  Speaking to The Standard on phone, Oimeke accused Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka of orchestrating the move to have the ticket handed over to USA based businessman Jonah Onkendi.  "It is indeed a sad day for the people of Bonchari since they were ready even to participate in the ODM party nomination to choose me to participate in the August election. It is absurd that the candidate who emerged fourth in the by-election held in May 2021 is the one given the direct nomination," said Oimeke.  The legislator said he was consulting his supporters before making his next political move.  Oimeke said Bonchari residents had witnessed democracy on trial with their choice for MP being denied a ticket by ODM and that they will not allow anyone to impose leaders on them.  The legislator was elected on an ODM ticket in a by-election last year following the death of former MP, John Oyioka. Zebedeo Opore of Jubilee emerged second while Oyioka's widow, Teresa Bitutu of UDA, finished third during the by-election.  Onkendi, who was handed a direct ticket by ODM at the Bomas of Kenya to contest in the August polls, finished fourth. He contested the by-election on a New Democrats Party ticket.  The candidate expressed confidence in winning the Bonchari seat come August and that he got a ticket following an opinion poll done by the party that showed he was more popular than Oimeke.  "I would like to thank the ODM party for recognising that I am the most popular candidate in Bonchari. I promise to deliver this seat and presidential votes for Raila Odinga in August," said Onkendi.  By Nzau Musau | 30 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 3 hours ago