A court in Nyeri has allowed the State to hold seven people accused of subjecting eight minors to female genital mutilation (FGM) for another three days.  Mukurwe-ini Resident Magistrate Demacline Bosibori yesterday declined to grant the accused persons bond.  The accused are Christine Thenya, Alice Wandia, Cecelia Nyaguthii, Rose Mumbi, Esther Ngendo, Aloise Waweru and Wahome Muriuki.  They had applied to be released on bond, pending the conclusion of investigations into the case.  In her ruling, however, the magistrate and the accused are likely to interfere with witnesses. “I find the prosecution has demonstrated the possibility of respondents interfering with witnesses, which is a compelling reason to deny them bond,” Ms Bosibori said.  She directed the suspects to be detained at Mukurwe-ini Police Station until April 12, considering the duration they had spent in police custody, to allow police to conclude investigations.    “The State shall be at liberty to charge the respondent with disclosed offences once investigations are complete and the decision to charge made,” Ms Bosibori ruled.  The suspects, who first appeared in court on Tuesday, are being questioned over reports they had planned to subject eight children to the cut.  Two girls were rescued by police over the weekend, while six others had already undergone the cut in Muthuthini village during the night ceremony.  The magistrate also directed police to escort Mumbi to a hospital for medical attention as the prosecution indicated she might have undergone FGM.  The court further directed the investigators to observe and promote fundamental human rights and freedoms of respondents while conducting investigations.  “Investigators should also employ safety measures to ensure victims are not compromised or intimidated pending charging and trial,” said Ms Bosibori.  The court, she said, was obliged to promote and protect the rights of the victim of the alleged crime.  “In my humble opinion it is not in the best interest of the children that the respondents are released back to the same homes where the minors will retreat once discharged from hospital,” said the magistrate.  She took note that most of the respondents are biological parents of the victims, hence the need to ensure they do not influence the vulnerable minors.   By Fidelis Kabunyi | 12 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 12 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 day ago By Nderitu Gichure | 2 days ago