Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi engaged in a verbal exchange over their support for ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto.  The leaders clashed at Igembe Tea Factory in Igembe South Constituency, where Mr Munya had convened a consultative meeting with farmers.  The problem started when Munya asked the farmers to support Raila for the presidency.  The CS was accompanied by aspirants of Azimio La Umoja - One Kenya affiliate parties, who rooted for the ODM leader as Mr Mwirigi, a Ruto ally, waited for his turn on the podium.  Munya enumerated the work he had done in the ministry under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta and took a swipe at the DP who he said had not been working to improve the lives of the people. The CS said, unlike he and the President who has worked to revive the dairy, tea, coffee and other sectors, the DP was busy politicking.  “I have helped all those sectors under the leadership of President Kenyatta. The others are just talking, sweet words but no work. They talk about what mama mboga, boda boda will get. They speak in markets and leave. There is no time they come to akachiu (villages) to see what is happening,” said the CS.  Mr Munya said they have done their arithmetic and Raila was assured of victory.  When he was invited to address the farmers, Mr Mwirigi said he was firmly in UDA and Ruto had visited the area eight times to look into development issues and was set for a clear win.  “I am in UDA, the party of William Ruto who will be president on August 9,” he said.  But Munya urged residents to join him in supporting Raila, saying the development in Igembe South was spearheaded Uhuru.  He said Mr Mwirigi should appreciate the fact that Uhuru, who is also supporting Raila, was responsible for the construction of roads in his constituency.  Munya told the MP to respect the president.  “John Paul is a witness to what Kenyatta has done in this area. And do not forget the president said you are his son and called you to State House and even gave you your first car. You should reciprocate because the president wants to leave us in a good place,” he said.  Mwirigi said he appreciated the president’s kind gesture but he has a right to decide who to support politically.  “I have a right to support Ruto because I know how my people in Igembe South will benefit. As for the car gift which I was thankful for, it is not supposed to change my right of choice,” he said.  “I will never disrespect the president who also said we have the freedom to choose who we want to support,” he stated.  By Stephanie Wangari | 48 minutes ago By Philip Mwakio and Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 6 hours ago