DRC President Felix Tshisekedi will chair the first consultative meeting between DR Congo militia groups representatives and his government tomorrow in Nairobi, State House Kenya has said.  The meeting which will be hosted & facilitated by President Uhuru Kenyatta seeks to broker a long-lasting deal between the protagonists of the bitter conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  During a closed door meeting today which lasted more than 7 hours at State House, Nairobi- regional leaders have agreed on immediately deploying a new regional force to tackle rebel insurgency in the country.  In a communique released by Nairobi, Presidents Kenyatta, Felix Tshisekedi (DRC), Yoweri Museveni (Uganda) and Evariste Ndayishimiye (Burundi) have also resolved that all armed groups in the DRC participate unconditionally in the political process to resolve their grievances- and failure to which they would be considered as negative forces and handled militarily by the region.  Rwanda’s Paul Kagame snubbed the Nairobi meeting & was represented by his foreign minister, Vincent Biruta. Reasons as to why President Kagame failed to show up during this meeting remain unknown.  The meeting has agreed to institute a secretariat that will oversee the implementation of the resolutions made.  Foreign Affairs PS, Macharia Kamau has been designated as President Kenyatta’s Special Envoy in an acting capacity.  Sought for a comment on possible peace talks between the militia groups and the government facilitated by Kenya, Mr Willy Ngoma- M23 rebel group spokesperson, told The Standard that “they believe in God & value peace than anything else”.  The rebel spokesperson did not reveal if M23 group will take part in the Nairobi meeting which will bring together local armed groups in DRC.  On April 8th, President Kenyatta chaired a quadripartite summit between Kenya, the DRC, Rwanda and Uganda, which mainly focused on the ongoing bitter conflict in eastern DRC as well as reviewing the 2013 Nairobi Declaration.  The proponents of the crisis in eastern Congo, Rwanda, Uganda & DRC were all under one roof save for Kenya which played the mediator role.  Kigali has for long been accused by Kinshasa of supporting the M23, reports the Kagame administration has denied.  Ugandan forces have long been present in the eastern DRC, jointly fighting the rebel groups based in the region.  Nairobi declaration  In December 2013, under the watch of Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta, Joyce Banda of Malawi who was the SADC chairperson by the time of signing and Yoweri Museveni- the rebel group and the Congolese government signed the Nairobi declaration to end the bitter conflict at State House, Nairobi.  This declaration was signed during Kenya’s 50th Independence Day.  One of the decisions of this declaration was to have the M23 end rebellion and transform itself into a legitimate political party.  Others were; the dissolution of it as an armed group as well as demobilization and a renunciation of violence as a means of pursuing future claims.  The then DR Congo President, Joseph Kabila was hailed by regional leaders for agreeing to sign the deal.  By Lynn Kolongei | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 8 hours ago By PSCU | 10 hours ago