The tradition of hosting international stars might not be back yet, but local music acts and entertainment spots in major towns have concerts and showbiz parties planned throughout the weekend.  Airline and bus tickets to Mombasa and Watamu were sold out by yesterday with no tickets available for would-be clients until Sunday.  Nairobi remains vibrant with the return of the gospel Sold Out concert taking place at the Waterfront in Karen, featuring Esther Wahome.  Another concert dubbed Shin City, organised by top pop singer Nyashinski, will be held at Carnivore tonight.  “Unlike the last two Easters when entertainment places remained closed with artistes only able to host virtue shows, this year things are looking up. Musicians and deejays are recovering as the bookings are overwhelming,” says Joe Mfalme who is in Kisumu City for a much-hyped show at the popular Club da Place in Mambo Leo. “Partygoers in Kisumu are excited and you can tell by the fans confirming their attendance during the tomorrow (today) and Sunday shows that its back to action,” said the seasoned turntablist, who will also be joining DJs Moseh and K the DJ during tomorrow’s family outing Kikao Sunday party.  “Kenyans might not have much to spare due to the hard economic times, but I can say this Easter is far much better than the previous two years. We are recording more patrons visiting our enjoyment areas and spending reasonably well on drinks and food,” said Kennedy Angweng, Club da Place CEO.  The biggest bonanza is in Watamu in the Coast, ‘Return of the Boomerang’. Pitting iconic Spanish deejay Paco Perez against his 80s discotheque boom counterparts from Kenya, DJ Addams and DJ Kareez.   The Sun Palm Beach Resort gig has attracted thousands with some having travelled from outside the country to attend.  “We are fully booked and are looking forward to hosting the biggest event in the country this Easter. The big stars as well as most of the clients who have booked the Saturday and Sunday shows are already here. It’s going to be an extravaganza that marks the return of the beach events,” said Noni Mbuguss, the brains behind the event.  “Paco Perez was the biggest deejay in Kenya in the 80s and early 90s. He has been on top of the game in Europe since and it is this popularity both to the locals and foreigners that we have leveraged on to make this a unique bonanza for the whole family,” added Noni.  In Machakos, It’s all about cars and all things fun as all roads to the Masaku TT for the trademark Carchella Festival; featuring time attack sessions, car shows and auto village for all petrolheads.  The new city of Nakuru showcases wholesome family time, interactive activities, shopping, games, talent search, cookout competitions, fashion shows and comedy performances from Teacher Wanjiku, Sleepy, Smart Comedian and Mchungaji courtesy of the Kids Carnival at Cyprus Park.    By Jacqueline Mahugu | 6 days ago By Boniface Mithika | 6 days ago By Lynn Kolongei and Fredrick Ooko | 9 days ago By Kirsten Kanja | 10 days ago