Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies in Parliament have joined forces to demand that the government speeds up the issuance of Huduma Namba cards.  The State is seeking to pass the law to unlock an impasse in theSh10 billion rollout after the High Court declared the cards illegal, saying they were in conflict with the Data Protection Act.  The proposed law ropes in the provisions of the Data Protection Act in the processing of personal data under Huduma Namba, which the government says will enable one to access services like driving licences, national identity cards, birth certificates and the Kenya Revenue Authority personal identification number.  Endebess MP Robert Pukose said the Bill should be fast-tracked, but "there should be amendments to clarify the whole process and how it was rolled out." Among the issues the MP wants sorted are abolition of application deadlines, clarification if it replaces the national identity card and reviewing of powers given to a Cabinet Secretary to revoke cards from the data system.  National Assembly Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya said the concerns raised by members will be addressed. "I look forward to us processing the few amendments raised so we can have this Bill in place before we break for recess."    The MPs said that the card would ease services as one will not have to move from one office to another with piles of documents.  "Huduma services were meant to harmonise and synchronise the various data systems. We need to be a country that has highly synchronised data so that we minimise moving from office to office," said Abel Ogutu (Bomachoge Borobu).  Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo urged members to delink the issuance of the card to the upcoming General Election. "It has nothing to do with elections. It’s only those that are already fearing the outcome of the election that are having the said claims."  By Stephanie Wangari | 27 minutes ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 5 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 6 hours ago