DAP-K Party Leader Wafula Wamunyinyi (left) and Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa (right) hand over a nomination certificate to Migori Gubernatorial candidate John Pesa (centre)  at the Party Headquarters in Nairobi on April 14, 2022 [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Democratic Alliance Party of Kenya (DAP-K) has issued direct tickets to aspirants who are vying for various seats across the country.  Speaking during the event at Chui House, Nairobi, yesterday, DAP-K leader Wafula Wamunyinyi said they will issue direct tickets in areas where there is only one candidate or aspirants have agreed to back one of them.  “I want to assure those who are here that if we have more than one candidate seeking leadership in a constituency or county, we shall not issue certificates today. Where there are more than two candidates and no agreement reached, we will explore the party’s methods as per the Constitution,’’ said Mr Wamunyinyi.  Former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya who is seeking to be Trans Nzoia governor and National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende who is eyeing Vihiga got direct tickets. Kisii governor aspirant, Senator Sam Ongeri and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati who is defending his seat were also issued with direct tickets. Others were Abdi Latif Mohammed (Garissa), John Pesa (Migori), George Mwandembo (Taita Taveta) and Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi. Mr Wangamati asked the aspirants to embark on serious campaigning to seek votes.    Serious party  “After August 9, it is when people will know whether DAP-K is a serious party or not, going by the seats it will get from governor to MCAs,” he said.  The governor urged the party to ensure free and fair nominations for other elective seats. Mr Natembeya thanked the party for handing him the nomination certificate and exuded confidence that he will win the seat.  Mr Marende termed Kenya Kwanza coalition leaders as nihilists and those opposed to all things including the Building Bridges Initiative(BBI).  “They will not win the coming General Election but will always remain in opposition,” he said.  Prof Ongeri hit out at propagandists for spreading falsehoods that he will not be on  the ballot saying that he is firmly in the race after securing the DAP-K ticket. Mr Pesa reiterated that only Azimio La Umoja One Kenya presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga can safeguard devolution.  He urged aspirants to campaign for Raila to become president. DAP-K is among affiliate parties of Azimio la Umoja One Kenya.  The party also issued direct tickets to eight Senate candidates, 15 Women Representatives, 57 Members of Parliament and 175 Members of County Assembly.  DAP-K. He is among aspirants we captured before closure of the transfer season,” DAP-K tweeted.     By Timothy Kariuki and Jane Mugambi | 5 hours ago By Nzau Musau | 5 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 5 hours ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago