Religious leaders have condemned the attack on ODM leader Raila Odinga in Eldoret last week.  Bishop Dominic Kimengich of Catholic Diocese of Eldoret, and Sheikh Abubakar Bini, chair of North Rift Council of Imams and Preachers of Islam, said the attack on Raila was unfortunate.  Speaking to journalists during the launch of Eldoret Professional Journalists Association (EPJA) on Saturday, the religious leaders asked politicians to preach peace in campaigns.  “Apart from being a Kalenjin, Kikuyu, Luo, Luhyia or other tribes, we are Kenyans and children of God. I condemn what happened to ODM leader Raila Odinga,” said Sheikh Abubakar, and urged leaders not to misuse their powers to intimidate or threaten political competitors.  Bishop Kimengech, who was chief guest, urged leaders to preach peace instead of using divisive statements. He asked media to publish positive stories without discrimination. “Peace had been restored in counties that had frequent conflicts during electioneering periods. Our leaders should learn from the past instead of chest thumping,” said Bishop Mengich.  Uasin Gishu Governor Mr Jackson Mandago urged politicians to stop using youth for political gain, saying they should instead participate in the process of building peace and reconciliation among the communities.  Mr Mandago said it was the responsibility of religious leaders to assess the state of the nation and provide appropriate direction on matters of peace.  “As the governor, I want to make it very clear, just like I had stated earlier; I don’t entertain violence. That’s why I am always holding several peace meetings with communities living in Uasin Gishu,” Mr Mandago said.  He urged police to investigate fairly, saying those involved on stoning the convoy and the chopper belonging to Raila should face the law.  Religious leaders have condemned attack on ODM leader Raila Odinga in Eldoret last week.  Bishop Dominic Kimengich of Catholic Diocese of Eldoret, and Sheikh Abubakar Bini, chair of North Rift Council of Imams and Preachers of Islam, said the attack on Raila was unfortunate.  Speaking to journalists during the launch of Eldoret Professional Journalists Association (EPJA) on Saturday, the religious leaders asked politicians to preach peace in campaigns.  “Apart from being a Kalenjin, Kikuyu, Luo, Luhyia or other tribes, we are Kenyans and children of God. I condemn what happened to ODM leader Raila Odinga,” said Sheikh Abubakar, and urged leaders not to misuse their powers to intimidate or threaten political competitors.  Bishop Kimengech, who was chief guest, urged leaders to preach peace instead of using divisive statements. He asked media to publish positive stories without discrimination.  “Peace had been restored in counties that had frequent conflicts during electioneering periods. Our leaders should learn from the past instead of chest-thumping,” said Bishop Mengich.  Uasin Gishu Governor Mr Jackson Mandago urged politicians to stop using youth for political gain, saying they should instead participate in the process of building peace and reconciliation among the communities.  Mr Mandago said it was the responsibility of religious leaders to assess the state of the nation and provide appropriate direction on matters of peace.  “As the governor, I want to make it very clear, just like I had stated earlier; I don’t entertain violence. That’s why I am always holding several peace meetings with communities living in Uasin Gishu,” Mr Mandago said.  He urged police to investigate fairly, saying those involved on stoning the convoy and the chopper belonging to Raila should face the law.  By Betty Njeru | 20 minutes ago By Patrick Vidija | 32 minutes ago By Macharia Kamau | 2 hours ago By Macharia Kamau and Dominic Omondi | 3 hours ago