Wesley Kogo, 30, addressing residents during a fundraiser for his political campaigns in Kipchamo, Nandi hills. [Edward Kosut, Standard]  Wesley Kogo, a political aspirant has died in a road accident in Nairobi’s Kangemi area, his family has confirmed.  Kogo alias Tingeet left his home for a radio interview in Nairobi. The interview at Kass FM international was to take place from 8-9 am.  The United Democratic Movement aspirant died on the spot in a morning accident at Kangemi area in Nairobi.  "When I called, I wanted to tell him the show had been rescheduled to 7:30 am but he was unreachable," Kass FM presenter Boaz Kemboi said. At the City morgue, his body was booked under unidentified persons.  His cousin Hillary Kosgei who was among those who viewed the body said the family was still coming to terms with the incident.  Wreckage of the matatu involved in a road accident at Kangemi, Nairobi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Kogo sustained deep cuts around the nose, with blood all over his face. His dark green suit was stained and torn.   Kabete Police boss Francis Muthui said the accident occurred around 5.30 am on Thursday.  He said nine passengers were injured. "One person was fatally injured and rushed to hospital for treatment but died on the way," Muthui said.  According to police, the matatu rammed into a bus in an attempt to avoid hitting an oncoming truck. "The bus was towed to NTSA for further investigation," added the police boss.  The matatu driver sustained a fracture on his leg and was taken to Kijabe hospital for treatment.  Kogo, aged 30, was seeking to vie for the Nandi Hills parliamentary seat through a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket and unseat the incumbent MP Alfred Keter.  He last year in November excited netizens when residents of Nandi Hills Constituency converged to fundraise for his political campaign.  Kogo managed to get Sh1.6 million, all in a bid to unseat Keter, a two-term MP who was elected on a Jubilee Party ticket.  The Standard reported that all this all started when some elders felt the "community's son" Kogo would be an ideal candidate for the seat. They approached him and asked him to plunge into the race.  The MP aspirant held a Bachelor in Applied Statistics and Computing from the University of Eldoret where he graduated in 2015.     By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Mate Tongola | 7 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 11 hours ago By Grace Ng’ang’a | 20 hours ago