Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Governor Stanley Kiptis led mourners at Ezekiel Kiplelmet’s home in Salawa, Baringo Central.[Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Celebrated Kanu life member Ezekiel Kiplelmet was yesterday laid to rest in a ceremony attended by hundreds.  Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Governor Stanley Kiptis and his Deputy Jacob Chepkwony led mourners at Kiplelmet’s home in Salawa, Baringo Central.  Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot, EALA MP Florence Jematia and Baringo Assembly speaker David Kerich were also present.  On September 13, 1979, Kiplelmet was awarded Kanu’s life membership certificate and elected as the divisional chair, a position he held until his death at the age of 90 on March 24. In 1967, he was recruited to the famous Kanu youth wing where he served until he was promoted to a divisional coordinator.  In 1974, he contested for the council representative position for Kabarnet Soi and won. He held the position for two consecutive terms until 1983.  In 1976, Kiplelmet campaigned against Gema’s proposal to change the Constitution to stop the late President Daniel Moi from ascending to power.  His casket was covered with Kanu party flag as a sign of honour. Senator Moi said Kiplelmet was a true representative of the party. He also promised to stand with Kiplelmet’s family.  “I will do all I can to assist his family. He always advised me,” he said.  The senator also said the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) was not dead as some claim. He said the apex court judges only faulted two issues of the seven raised.  “In 100 days after election, we will restart the process, BBI will come back,” he said.  Gideon defended the BBI because of its benefits to the people. BBI, he said, was about the people and not any leader. Through BBI, he said, counties will get additional funding.  He said he will not allow locals to go to the opposition and urged them to make the right decision.  “The problems we have will only be solved when we are in government. We cannot afford to be in opposition and cannot take chances,” he added.  On insecurity, he promised more National Police Reservists will be deployed to affected areas.  By Omelo Juliet | 5 hours ago By Faith Kutere | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 15 hours ago