Drought in Marsabit County in northern Kenya has increased malnutrition to acute levels.  Breastfeeding and complementary feeding for infants after six months has been gravely compromised due to the vulnerable pregnant and lactating mothers migrating with their families in search of water and pasture for livestock.  In Ileret, North Horr and Laisamis, the ravaging drought has killed thousands of livestock leaving desperate families without a livelihood.  In Watalii Manyata, Illeret Sub-County, visitors are welcomed by children with sunken faces walking with empty tins in hopes of getting food or drinking water.  Nakhur Oiso, 26, is a mother of seven, says before drought came calling, children got milk from either cows or goats but without livestock “most times we stay two to three days without a meal” as goats have to be taken to Ethiopia in exchange for food. “If I eat my baby will have something to breastfeed, if not he will just bear like the rest,” says Nakhur, who like most mothers there, has no specific food to increase breast milk production.    They eat any available food like meat, or tea just to keep them strong.  The situation is different for pregnant women in Loiyangalani where children and women eat roots growing in dirty swampy areas despite the risk of diseases.  After giving birth, women are given blood from animals and soup from sheep meat for four days to regain energy and blood lost during delivery, says Fatuma Galgalo, a pregnant mother of six.  Blood from animals is said to be full of iron and the soup helps to restore the mother's nutrients.  But with the ongoing drought, all livestock are either dying or trekking in search of pasture denying blood or soup for post-natal mothers.  Children under five suffer acute malnutrition, according to Victoria Naperu, a Community Health Volunteer (CHV) in Laisamis where children are only taken to the hospital and fed with plumpy nuts after checking their nutrition levels using Mid upper arm circumference (MUAC).  “Most women here give birth at home, and one just died recently after giving birth to twins alone,” says Naperu. “No one was there to help her and she bled to death. She was weak, had not eaten and the little blood she had she bled while giving birth causing her death.”   Pregnant women in Laisamis have to brace for walking long distances searching for water and food as their men are in the grazing fields.  “Most depend on relief food, which is mostly maize. The young ones cannot feed on maize because there are no posho mills in this area. Also, maize alone is not a balanced diet,” adds Naperu  Mohammed Sheriff, a CHV in Hurr Hills says the malnutrition cases are exponentially increasing daily due to the prolonged drought now in its third year with the main causes of malnutrition being inadequate household food security, inadequate care, wanting health services and an unhealthy household environment   “The malnutrition levels are above 45 per cent, an emergency case that needs immediate intervention,” says Sheriff. “Women have nothing to feed their children, there are no medical supplies, no ambulance. Even adults are malnourished. We are just waiting on God,” says Sheriff  Water in North Horr is donated by a local humanitarian outfit and  Mamabudho Ali Wario is among those queuing patiently. She had planned to walk 60 kilometres to the Ethiopian border searching for water to help women who had delivered but “lost consciousness due to lack of water.  No one had water and we couldn’t prepare any food without water,” she explains.    “The mother will just breastfeed their baby knowing there is no milk coming out just to calm their hunger cries,” says Mamabudho adding that sometimes children feed on wild fruits and diluted goat milk while on the move under harsh weather conditions.    Most times, pregnant and lactating mothers sleep in makeshift abodes called for a with attendant hazards being cold nights, insecurity and some are infested with poisonous snakes  In Illeret some women are giving children alcohol to silence their hunger cries.  Dellah Akumu a nutrition officer with Save the Children, an NGO says   malnutrition leads to stunted growth in children “and they will be shorter in height than their peers and shorter for their age, have reduced intellectual capacity and will not also perform well in school.”  Akumu adds that malnourished children are prone to opportunistic diseases like tuberculosis and other respiratory infections and “these children are at risk of dying. A child who is red on MUAC measurement is nine times more likely to die compared to a healthy baby. But if the child survives the acute malnutrition, when they grow up they become less productive even cognitive wise.”  Breastfeeding for mothers on the move becomes a big challenge from the general fatigue low supply of food and poor living conditions.  The deterioration of food insecurity is attributed to multiple shocks, including dry spells from three consecutive poor seasonal rainfall performances, below-average crop and livestock production, localized resource-based conflict, and the ripple effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in increasing staple food prices across the country.     By David Njaaga | 7 days ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 14 days ago By Ali Abdi | 19 days ago By Bakari Ang’ela | 1 month ago