The United Democratic Alliance (UDA), which is sponsoring Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid, holds its primaries today in what will test its ability to hold together in the face of stiff competition for its tickets.  The party’s National Elections Board (NEB) chairman Anthony Mwaura yesterday said it had made adequate preparations to ensure the nominations are conducted successfully. His assurance, however, came amid protests by some hopefuls that the exercise was skewed in favour of their rivals.  Aspirants for most of the seats in Rift Valley — perceived as one of UDA’s strongholds — will be determined through indirect nominations after the party gave out only a few direct tickets in the region through consensus.   “The law provides that we use the party register and we shall stick to that. We shall use polling stations gazetted by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC),” said Mr Mwaura.  Constituency returning officers reported to their stations on Monday while clerks and presiding officers were trained yesterday.  In Nakuru, the party will only hold nominations for four positions.   “We shall have nominations for the positions of ward representatives, woman representative, MPs and Senate,” UDA’s Nakuru County Returning Officer Joshua Murgor said. Nakuru has 1,117 polling centres and a total of 428 hopefuls for the various seats.  The position of governor will not be part of the nomination because the party has only one hopeful.  “Senator Susan Kihika is UDA’s uncontested candidate for the governorship hence she won’t be subjected to the nominations,” said Mr Murgor.  Among those eyeing the senatorial ticket are Ms Tabitha Karanja Keroche, Mr Andrew Yatich, Mr Dan Mahiri, Mr Mugambi Amathi and Dr Stanley Sonoiya.  Molo MP Kuria Kimani called on party members to turn up in large numbers and maintain peace during the nominations.    Lead by example  “As UDA, we shall lead by example in ensuring the nominations are successful and peaceful. I am confident that my development record especially in the education sector shall speak for me,” said Mr Kuria, who is defending his seat from two other hopefuls.  In Laikipia, battle lines have been drawn in the governorship ticket with former county chief Joshua Irungu set to compete against Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru.  Both hail from the vote rich Laikipia West constituency. Mr Irungu is relying on his development record as a former governor to attract voters to help him secure the party ticket.  “The people will judge me by what I have done for them when I was their governor. I am sure they will come out in large numbers so that I can get the party ticket,” he said.  He cited infrastructure, water provision and security improvement during his tenure as his major achievements.  On the other hand, Mr Mariru said his political experience makes him best suited for the seat.  He previously served as the first Speaker in the Laikipia County Assembly and is a member of the Speaker’s panel at the National Assembly.  “The seat needs an experienced leader and I believe I have what it takes. It is upon the people to decide,” he said.  Meanwhile, the woman MP seat has attracted Ms Jane Kagiri and Ms Wangui Miano while John Kinyua is the sole candidate for Senate ticket.  In Nyandarua County, the duel for the governor’s ticket will be between Dr Kiarie Badilisha and former ABC Chief Operations Officer Njoroge Muchiri.  Mr Badilisha came second during the last elections after losing to Governor Francis Kimemia.  The race for the senatorial ticket will be between youth leader John Methu and lawyer Kinyanjui Theuri while Woman Rep Faith Gitau will have no competitor.  For aspirants in the North Rift, which is Deputy President William Ruto’s backyard, nominations will be a do-or-die affair for many of the hopefuls since a nomination will be as good as an election win come August 9.  Seven Uasin Gishu governor aspirants were on Monday hosted by businessman and county UDA patron Joseph Wainaina for a breakfast meeting where they pledged to maintain peace.  They are former Kenya’s ambassador to Pakistan Julius Bitok, Mrs Sarah Serem (former Salaries and Remuneration boss and Kenyan ambassador to China), Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Mr Jonathan Bii, former Nairobi County executive member Vesca Kangogo, Mr David Sing’oei and Mr Solomon Kiptarbei.  Nominations in Uasin Gishu are expected to attract attention because it is the DP’s home county.  “We want Uasin Gishu to be an example of how peaceful nominations can be done,” Mr Wainaina said. “The aspirants have agreed that the loser in the nominations will support the winner. It was also agreed that the winner in the nominations will serve all communities in Uasin Gishu.”  Voting day  Uasin Gishu UDA Coordinator Paul Kiprop said voting will start at 7am and close at 5pm.  Mr Kositany said they were satisfied with the preparations for the nominations.  “UDA is the only party preparing to conduct free and fair nominations so far. We want to maintain peace and decorum,” the Soy MP said.  Similarly, Mr Bitok urged party members to maintain peace and respect the nomination process. And Mr Bii said: “Life will go on. After the nominations, we will hold hands in show of unity.”  Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said aspirants ironed out mistrust issues during the breakfast meeting.  In Elgeyo Marakwet, a UDA stronghold, there were calls for peaceful, free and fair nominations. Governorship aspirant Wisley Rotich, who is the current deputy governor, said campaigns had been peaceful. “We want our supporters to vote in a peaceful environment,” he said.     By Stephanie Wangari | 27 minutes ago By Standard Team | 5 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 5 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 6 hours ago