A woman casts her vote at Chemaluk Primary School polling centre in Uasin Gishu yesterday.  [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  The repeat United Democratic Alliance nominations in Moiben Constituency recorded a low voter turnout yesterday.   The voting exercise began at 8am while voters started streaming in the polling stations at 7am.   The UDA party election board cancelled the April 14 Moiben Constituency nomination results following complaints by voters and aspirants that the exercise that was marred by irregularities.   During the exercise at the Moiben Constituency tallying centre in Eldoret, chaos erupted forcing police officers to intervene and lobbed teargas canisters.  In the cancelled results, James Kibor had been declared winner.  Prof Phylis Bartoo, Joseph Lagat, Diana Lagat, Patrick Kiptoo and Donald Murgor who were the other contestants complained and called for fresh nominations.     At Ainabtich Primary polling station yesterday, voters called for a fair nomination devoid of any malpractice.   MP aspirant Philip Mutwol who cast his vote at the polling station said he had stepped down in favour of Joseph Lagat, the former Eldoret East MP.   "We hope this exercise will be peaceful and that democracy will reign. I have shelved my bid and will support my colleague Lagat," said Mutwol.   Lagat said he had hoped for fair nominations.  "We expect a peaceful nomination today. Last time, the polling stations were peaceful and the problem only came at the tallying centre," said Lagat.   Lagat said once the nominations are done, the aspirants should support the winner.  "There have been rumours of voter bribery but we are optimistic that the party will conduct a free and fair exercise," said Bartoo.  Kibor, who had been given a certificate before the repeat primaries, dismissed allegations that he won because of malpractises.  He said he had won the nominations fairly and he would still win.  "I emerged the winner after topping in most of the polling stations and was handed the certificate but the results were cancelled," Kibor said. "I accepted and I know I will win again."  By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 hour ago By Edward Kosut | 1 hour ago By Antony Gitonga | 19 hours ago