Mandeleeo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Machakos Governor Dr Alfred Mutua has rubbished declarations by the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) that the contents of the Azimio-OKA coalition agreement were altered.  Mutua, in a statement on Tuesday, April 12, told off OKA for claiming to promote inclusivity but wanting to exclude over 20 political parties that formed Azimio by pushing their own interests.  On Monday, the OKA team that comprises Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper party, Gideon Moi’s Kanu, and Cyrus Jirongo’s UDP wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties seeking to  stop the registration of the Azimio la Umoja - One Kenya coalition party.  OKA claimed that the documents presented before the Registrar were doctored and did not reflect what the alliance signed. But the Maendeleo Chap Chap leader, in a rebuttal, said OKA was "wrong" and is only using this avenue for “blackmail and entitlement.”  “I would urge OKA and all our partners in Azimio become more accommodative, not only to Mwanzo Mpya as the fourth leg but to any other political outfit that wishes to join Azimio,” Mutua said.  He further reiterated his last week's sentiments that the Azimio-OKA deal was meant to create  a three-legged stool of Jubilee, Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) and Wiper parties.  “We were all working well together in the spirit of unity before the document that OKA is insisting be reinstated. The document was creating a power base of only three parties - Jubilee, ODM, and Wiper, excluding all the other parties of Azimio from effective and democratic participation,” the Machakos county chief said.  “This political selfishness is the problem that we have faced in this country of leaders and opportunists who whine and blackmail all the time, and who put their personal interests and not those of wananchi first,” he added.  Azimio Executive Director Raphael Tuju on Tuesday, April 12 said during a press  briefing that there was no cause for alarm, and that the arising issues are being resolved by the co-principals. He said just like is the case with sibling relationships, there’s bound to be conflicts and disagreements.  “If legitimate concerns have been raised and we are seized of the matter, withdrawal is an option but there’s no cause for alarm,” Tuju stated.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 3 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago