The Cabinet Secretary (CS) for Treasury  is today scheduled to present the next financial year's Budget before the National Assembly at a time when Kenyans are feeling the pinch of high inflation arising from various pressures.  Whereas it is understandable that the CS will be under pressure to review taxation measures in Treasury's quest to raise revenue to meet various government commitments, he would do well to temper the pressure for higher taxation with a consideration of citizens' economic welfare.  This is a tightrope that will not be easy for Treasury policymakers to walk given that the August election will influence how legislators will respond to the Budget speech. They, too, will have to navigate between helping the government to raise tax revenue on the one hand, and ensuring that voters do not feel overburdened on the other.  It would be advisable, therefore, for Treasury to strike a balance between government's need to spend more - especially on high value infrastructure projects that are nearing completion - and citizen's ability to meet their tax obligations without compromising their quality of life.  One consideration Treasury should make in today's Budget proposals is how public institutions like hospitals and schools can be made more efficient to incentivise the middle class to prefer them over their private-sector competitors. Part of the reason many Kenyans send children to private schools and seek treatment in private hospitals is that they do not have sufficient confidence in the equivalent institutions in public sector. As a result, citizens pay private institutions for services that they are already being taxed for. Finding a way for citizens to patronise public institutions for services like security will reduce secondary expenditures on similar services from private companies. Policymakers at the Treasury can find innovative ways of doing this so as to shield Kenyans from high cost of goods and services, partly arising from increased taxation and double budgetary allocation at domestic level for services like health and education.  By Pamela Chepkemei | 8 hours ago By Jonathan Wesaya | 15 hours ago By Editorial | 22 hours ago By Kalangi Kiambati | 22 hours ago