Drivers of vehicles with campaign materials on the rear windscreen risk being arrested for a traffic offence.  This comes as police seek guidance from Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai on how to deal with the matter.  Police officers have raised concerns over an increase of vehicles especially PSVs with campaign material all over the windscreens amid heightened political activities.    Imenti North Police boss Alexander Makau said such vehicles are breaking the law. According to section 30 of the traffic rules, the windscreen of every motor vehicle should be kept in such condition that the driver’s view is not impeded.  “Every motor vehicle shall be so designed, constructed and used that the driver controlling it has a full view of the road and traffic ahead. The windscreen and windows of every motor vehicle shall be kept free from the application of any material which has, or is capable of having, reflective properties,” reads part of the Act.  But different politicians from parts of Meru have deployed the convenience of the vehicles to market themselves to the electorate.  Gilbert Kimaita, a Ward Rep candidate, said many politicians running for various seats had opted to popularise themselves by having vehicles plying various routes display posters on the rear windscreens.  Mr Kimaita said it not only saves them scarce resources for campaigns but it is also an answer to many who could not afford billboards on the streets and roadsides.  “The taxis are a good way to sell ourselves because they go to so many destinations in the area. People are able to see my face and the seat I am running for at the termini and bus stops along the route,” he said.  Many taxis heading to Meru, Nkubu, Timau, Maua, Igoji, Kianjai and other destinations now have posters of the contenders decorated across their back windows.  But the police boss said even though they understood it was the electioneering season, the act was equivalent to tinting the rear windscreen and remained outlawed Traffic Act since it raised safety issues.  Mr Makau said this rule could be relaxed two to three months before the general election.  He added that grassroots officers had sought direction from Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai on how to deal with the issue.  “Having posters on the rear of the vehicle is illegal because it is a threat. The driver cannot be able to see vehicles behind him through his rearview mirror,” said the OCPD.    The police commander said by not having a clear view of the vehicles moving behind them, drivers who have their views blocked stood a high risk of causing accidents.  “We are waiting for directions from the IG. As of now it is against Traffic Act but maybe it will be relaxed when campaigns pick up,” Makau said.  By Stephanie Wangari | 5 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 6 hours ago By George Maringa | 7 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 8 hours ago