Schools are set to reopen in a fortnight with the resumption of school games.  President Uhuru Kenyatta had in March last year suspended all sporting activities and in-person schooling as the country battled a rising wave of covid-19 infections.  But the resumption of sporting activities is a sigh of relief to the sector. It will help the country continue nurturing talent right from the school level.  It’s good that the Ministry of Education, in collaboration with other ministries, has developed guidelines to ensure that the pandemic does not interfere with sports once they resume. They have also developed health and safety protocols in school games, and sensitisation in the post-Covid-19 era.   Parents, on their part, should ensure that students get Covid-19 vaccines. Such a move is a sure way to ensure that all are protected against the disease. It is a good start to stir latent talents in our schools. We have won the highest number of medals on the global stage. We also continue to bask in a talent glut in rugby, volleyball, basketball and football, thanks to our co-curricular activities in school. That students from St Patrick’s High School Iten made the national team to Olympic Games from 1972 to 2012 is no mean feat. We had twins Kipkoech Cheruiyot (1,500m) and Charles Cheruiyot (5,000m), then Form Three students at the school, competing in 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles. It was a big achievement.  Sing’ore Girls and Kapkenda Girls also produced world-beating athletes while Cardinal Otunga Mosocho (basketball) and Kisumu Girls (hockey) hogged the headlines; all these were necessitated by the efficiency of our education curriculum that included sports.  Similarly, schools such as Kakamega School and Itierio High School in Kisii served as feeders for Harambee Stars over the years. Harambee Stars midfielder Eric Ouma, Simon Mulama and Mike Kisaghi are leading lights from Kakamega School while former winger Henry Motego, former striker Mike Okoth and the late Henry Nyandoro studied at Itierio High School.  Former Kenya Sevens captain Humphrey Khayange stirred his rugby skills at Kakamega School. So, it’s high time we take the cue from these stars and build a strong sporting empire from our schools. It is evident schools have, for a long time, formed the foundation for our sporting talents.  Covid-19 occasioned the change in our academic calendar which was also aligned with the international sporting schedule.  But with time, we should align again and the resumption of sporting in schools is just a start.  Let's get ready for it.    By Isaac Kalua | 19 seconds ago By Mike Nyagwoka | 7 hours ago By Mark Oloo | 1 day ago By Lynet Awuor Otieno | 1 day ago