The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) will reduce the nomination fees for women and other special interest groups vying for various political seats by half.  IEBC vice-chairperson Juliana Cherera said the commission understands the economic position of women and other special interest groups when vying for seats.  “As IEBC, we understand the economic position of women and the many things that we have to do in this society to help increase their numbers on the ballot,” she said.  Ms Cherera was speaking at the launch of the Women’s Political Leadership Strategy by Action Aid Kenya on Wednesday in Nairobi.  The launch brought together women leaders, and aspirants for various political seats in the coming elections to formulate ways to overcome barriers to their ascension to political leadership. Among the challenges mentioned was insecurity during campaigning, both online and offline, as well as the cost of vying for various seats, which women aspirants said was expensive. “Male aspirants for a member of Parliament seat will pay Sh20,000, while women will pay Sh10,000 and male MCA aspirants will pay Sh5,000, women Sh2,500,” she said.  Male aspirants seeking presidential seats will pay Sh200,000 while women, youth, and PLWDs will pay Sh100,000. For gubernatorial seats, men will pay Sh50,000, and women Sh25,000, the same charges apply for Senate seats.  The forum highlighted insecurity, finances as well as the cost of vying for various seat as the major stabling blocks for women seeking political leadership. Lack of women participation in top political party’s leadership, Impunity and patriarch culture resistance were also mentioned as blockages to women political leadership.  The Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu said out of all the 86 registered parties in the country, only seven were led by women.  “Among the registered political party members , only 36 per cent are women while 64 per cent are men,” she said, adding that the newly amended Political Parties Act plays an important part in enhancing women’s participation in elections.  “The distribution formula of the special interest group fund to political parties will depend on whether or not they have a 15 per cent composition of these special groups,” she said.  By Standard Reporter | 2 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 4 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga and Victor Nzuma | 4 hours ago By Mkamburi Mwawasi | 5 hours ago