Secretary-General Jubilee Party Raphael Tuju. [Jonah Onyango, Standard]  The entry of Mr Raphael Tuju in the Azimio la Umoja–One Kenya coalition secretariat has been billed as the silver bullet that will cure unhealthy competition from the affiliate parties.  Mr Tuju’s appointment as the executive director of the Azimio la Umoja secretariat yesterday reflected ascendancy in his political odyssey. It also added to his growing reputation as President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga’s “Mr Fix It”.  He takes over at a time when the monolithic Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition party is conducting countrywide nominations. His mission is clear; to coordinate the operations of the more than 20 member parties ahead of the August 9 poll.  In a phone interview with The Standard yesterday, Mr Tuju said his work is cut out for him and he will be methodical in the execution of his duties. “…It has never been about me in the political arena if you know my history. Right now my focus is on how we ensure we have a good election and that Azimio emerges the winner.”  His work, he said, will be to coordinate member parties and ensure Azimio emerges victorious in the General Election that is less than four months away.  “If there is a constituency where competition within Azimio-affiliated parties could lead to the spoils going to our competition, then we will provide a solution and ensure we retain the seat.”    According to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, the former Jubilee Party Secretary-General will “chair a committee of all the secretaries-general from the close to 20 parties in the coalition to come up with modalities on nominations”.  Mr Tuju faces the uphill task of ensuring Azimio emerges victorious, especially in battleground areas where Azimio-leaning parties and Kenya Kwanza affiliated parties have a considerable foothold.  In Langa’ta constituency, for instance, which Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga represented for over 20 years, it is going to be a gruelling duel as ODM fights to snatch the seat from United Democratic Alliance’s Nixon Korir.  Prospective candidates in the Lang’ata seat include comedian Felix Odiwuor alias Jalang’o, NMS director of Health Services Ouma Oluga and former Gor Mahia FC Treasurer Sally Bolo. They all want to unseat Mr Korir who is seeking a second term.  Mr Tuju is, however, banking on zoning and consensus to pick candidates in areas like Lang’ata.   “…in an area like Lang’ata, where there are comparative strengths and weaknesses of both parties under Azimio, you look at the party that has the most chances of securing the seat.”   Other battlegrounds that could decide who between Mr Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto progresses to State House include Tana River, Lamu, Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit Turkana, and West Pokot.  Mr Tuju has to ensure Azimio-affiliate parties such as ODM, which is currently conducting party primaries slated to end on April 21 and Jubilee and Wiper, which will be conducting nominations from next week to April 22, produce strong candidates.  Parties under Azimio have adopted a staggered approach to the nominations within the slated dates. They applied the way of universal suffrage and indirect nomination through the direct issuance of tickets to preferred candidates upon consensus. Their last resort will be subjecting candidates to the ballot.  Mr Tuju’s appointment comes hot on the heels of the signing of a deed of agreement between various parties to form the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition party.  Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni, during the agreement signing last week, said ahead of the various party nominations and consequent polls, the coalition will heavily rely on zoning the country according to spheres of influence.  “The guiding principle will be the one that gives us the maximum number of votes.”   By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago By Grace Ng'ang'a and Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 14 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 14 hours ago