Outgoing Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua wants a handshake with Kalonzo Musyoka saying they have a common goal for the country.  Mutua’s address comes amidst rumbles in the Azimio la Umoja, with some parties crying foul at some of the major decisions made by the coalition leadership.  Speaking during a press briefing at Maendeleo Chap Chap centre on Sunday noon, Mutua said he  ‘is ready for a handshake’ with the former Vice President. and has called on Kalonzo to ‘ceasefire and forge forward as a team to secure Raila’s Presidency’  “Yes, we are competitors in a country yearning for generational change that is focused not on the past but the comfort of the present and assurance of a good future, but this should not blind us to the task at hand,” he said.  Then added, “I am ready for a handshake, so, let us cease fire and forge forward as a team to secure Raila’s Presidency. Let us work together, strategise together and even campaign together, because that is the only way to win” The second term governor also reiterated that his Maendeleo Chap Chap Party fully supports Raila Odinga’s presidential bid adding his team was satisfied by the Azimio la Umoja agreement.  “I wish to confirm that I have seen the document by Azimio, I have read and re-read it and presented it to my team and we are satisfied. Therefore; Maendeleo Chap Chap Party will work together with all the other Azimio parties to campaign on every ridge and every hill in our nation,” Mutua said.  Moreover, Mutua presented himself for consideration as the Azimio la Umoja running mate in the upcoming General Election.  “I know that with him, he will be sending me and I will rush in a Chap Chap way and get it done so that Kenya becomes another Singapore or Malaysia where people have more money in their pockets,” he explained in his quest.  Mutua’s sentiments on Sunday are seen as a U-turn to his utterances barely a week ago where he expressed a lack of confidence in the Azimio One Kenya coalition.  Speaking during the MCC Aspirants meeting at KICC on Thursday last week, Mutua said that the party will devise a way forward.  "To tell you the truth from where I stand as your party leader, I have lost faith in whatever document is coming out of here. I cannot trust. I do not know what they have or will deposit in the document," he said.        By Stephanie Wangari | 48 minutes ago By Philip Mwakio and Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago