Deputy President William Ruto has criticised the government’s plans to renovate his official residence in Karen, Nairobi.  Dr Ruto termed the plans “inhuman” at a time at least three million Kenyans are facing hunger due to acute drought.  Even though the renovations are in preparation for the incoming occupants of the DP’s office, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s allies have pushed for Dr Ruto’s eviction from his official residence to pave way for the renovations.  “I want to tell the good people who want to assist us with the renovation that for Kenya Kwanza, renovating the residence of the deputy president is not a priority. Our priority is to sort out the hunger of the close to three million Kenyans today,” said the DP.  This is not the first time he is having tribulations over his official residence.   In January 2020, he was forced to spend the night at English Point Marina in Nyali, Mombasa, after being denied access to the DP's official residence in Mombasa.  Last year, Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe hinted to a possible impeachment of Dr Ruto and eviction from his official residence.  “Very soon there will be an eviction party from the hustler mansion in Karen and I can assure you it is loading,” said Mr Murathe.  Dr Ruto’s troubles began when his relationship with President Kenyatta became frosty after the 2017 General Election.  However, the misfortunes befalling the DP seem not to bother him, even as he jokingly asked his allies to join him for lunch in what he called the “hustlers mansion” before the renovations.  Ruto prefers to stay in his private residence with his family and only uses the official residence for official functions and when hosting delegations.  The Sh400 million residence will be renovated at a cost of Sh2 million while the DP’s Harambee House Annex will gobble up Sh18 million in an ongoing plan by the government to use at least Sh258 million to refurbish State House, Nairobi as well as state lodges across the county.  In 2018, the government resolved to spend Sh152.4 million to refurbish the DP’s second official home in Mombasa County before the General Election.  By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi and Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 9 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 9 hours ago