A valley of dry bones is a scene best cast in a horror movie.  Prophet Ezekiel found himself as an actor in that horror scene. Consumed with flight and fear, a chilling voice from an invisible being poses a question to him, “Can these bones live?” His mind is frozen and incapable of clear thought so he responds “Only you would know.”  The questioning voice provides a strong response - fierce winds blow into the valley from all directions.  The horror rating rises to become more horrific as bones are sent flying from all corners of the valley. The bones – seemingly fitted with some sensors – do not land until they find a fitting socket. The complete skeletons are then enfleshed waiting for the enlivening breath. And the breath does come. The bones turned skeletons then turned into bodies now stand - alive.  Dramatic indeed!  Such is just a fraction of what makes up a resurrection.  The resurrection power – the power that brings back life – is arguably the greatest power possible because it is not only living but it is life itself. Death cannot stand in its way and where it does, the resurrection power mocks it saying “Oh death where is your sting?” Death being an irreversible process makes the resurrection the greatest miracle.  Injecting a resurrected life with inability to die again is a transcendent scope of lifengineering.  Human knowledge may elongate life but cannot prevent death.  When death occurs human knowledge can preserve the body for years but cannot engineer life back.  Science will confirm that once the death of a human being occurs a resurrection is impossible. If a resurrection happens, it would be a phenomenon unknown to science.  These facts make the resurrection subject that is central to the Christian faith very critical. The resurrection claim draws curiosity from every quarter. Interestingly, it is continually challenged but never been dislodged.  Christians have a power that is unique – the resurrection power.  So critical is this power that Paul of Tarsus says that “If Christ did not rise from the dead we are to be terribly pitied” because all Christian history and hope come tumbling down. Paul – a scholar, a Pharisee turned pastor - is so intrigued by this resurrection power that he isolates it as an area of cardinal interest, “That I may know Christ and the power of the resurrection…” It would have been quite impactful to read a treatise on his resurrection studies! But one this is doubtless – his confidence in the reality and value of the resurrection.  Interestingly, he operationalises the power of the resurrection beyond raising the Christ from the dead when he says “The Spirit of God, who raised Jesus from the dead, lives in you...”  This spiritual truth of the resurrection power being at work in the believer triggers a question: Why do the Christians then often look so powerless?  How can they claim to house the resurrection power yet live starved of divine action? This critique creates two scenarios: understanding the resurrection power but downplaying its application, or under-understanding the resurrection and, therefore, the paradox of an underwhelming impact yet claiming a perpetual contact with the Resurrected One.    In a world where the language of power is top on many agendas – demonstrating who is the most powerful - the resurrection power has a place to present its case in the power platforms. Christians need to explain and demonstrate to the world the nature and impact if this power. To the extent that Christ’s rising from the dead is a historical fact, and the resurrection power operates in the lives of believers in some form, evidence of the resurrection power should be collectable and presented for the world to engage.  One error of the Christian practice is transferring the entire resurrection power to the mystical zone.  This postponement until “eternal life” lives people musing at just how life would be if only a fraction of this resurrection voltage leaked into the earthly realm! But a biblical check displaces such postponement when it tracks the resurrection power in the life of the believer.    The Chernobyl nuclear leak brought death with its acute radiation. The Empty-Tomb leak radiates unstoppable hope-raising rays.  This life-breathing impact is demonstrated by the many stories and systems Jesus permanently changed for the good of the people. Every place where authentic Christians and Christian communities exist will have evidence of the resurrection power at work.  That the church has access to this unique transcendent yet immanent power, what are Christians doing with it? It would be such a disservice to “bushel” such a life-giving power. Why should the world suffer so much when some people somewhere keep the resurrection power in a potential form?  If only the church would give a formula to tap into it!  “Blackouts” are never because the resurrection power lines have no supply.   Theological short-cuts, theological sloth, theological staleness and theological timidity are the reasons for loose connections.  When circumstances demanded, Elijah stepped up to demonstrate the potency of his faith.  One way of defending the faith is by demonstrating it. The church owes the world access to the accessible dimensions of the resurrection power.    Kenya is dying in so many ways.  Organs are shutting down and life seems to be leaving Kenya’s body.  Citizens are short of breath.  Some who claimed to have capacity to bring dry bones to life have ground the bones into dust – and they have put the dust on sale - merchants of death masquerading as agents of light! Kenya badly needs this resurrection power.    As Kenya prepares for new leadership, we must give ourselves a thriving chance by connecting to the power lines running from the Empty Tomb to power us for the rest of our lives. We have no excuse not to gain the benefit of the resurrecting power given that the fee for the last mile connection is faith…and we have an abundance of it.  edwardphilipburi@gmail.com      By Mugambi Laibuta | 10 hours ago By Koki Muli Grignon | 13 hours ago By Mary Mwadime | 13 hours ago By Joe Magero | 14 hours ago