President Uhuru Kenyatta addresses worshippers outside African Inland Church in Pipeline, Nairobi on April 03,2022 after Sunday service. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has condemned an incident where ODM leader Raila Odinga's entourage was pelted with stones in Soy Constituency, Uasin Gishu County on Friday.  The president was speaking during a rally after attending a service at AIC Pipeline Church, in Nairobi County.  "Why would anyone pelt Baba's [ODM leader Raila Odinga] helicopter with stones? What if a stone injured him? Wouldn't that have caused chaos in the country?" posed the president.  The Head of State called upon political leaders to exercise tolerance and promote peace ahead of the August 9 polls. He urged the leaders to engage in peaceful campaigns and ensure Kenyans are united even after the elections.  "For us, as political leaders, we should behave in a manner that allows our people to live in peace and go about our business regardless of who seats in which position [come elections].  "We're in Kenya to stay. God has blessed us with this nation, hence, we should protect it, learn to live in peace and we must preserve it," Uhuru said.  The president added; "There is no one who sent an application to live in Kenya. It is God who decided where we would stay," said the president.  So far, fourteen people have been arrested in connection to the attack meted out on Odinga's entourage.  In a statement, the National Police Service said; "The National Police Service condemns the ugly criminal incident and appeals for tolerance and respect for competitors in this season of politics as we approach elections. Acts of violence targeting opponents shall not be tolerated."  Members of Parliament for Soy and Kapseret Caleb Kositany and Oscar Sudi have also presented themselves at the Rift Valley Regional Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Headquarters in Nakuru after they were summoned yesterday.  By Stephanie Wangari and Mate Tongola | 5 hours ago By Ben Ahenda | 6 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago