Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and KANU Chairman Gideon Moi at a previous function [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Four constituent parties of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) have written to the registrar of political parties seeking a stop to the registration of the Azimio la Umoja - One Kenya coalition political party.  In a letter seen by The Standard dated April 11, 2022, the OKA caucus says the documents presented before the registrar were altered and do not reflect what the alliance signed.  "It is apparent that the Agreement lodged on the 1st April 2022 was withdrawn and certain clauses amended or altered without the consent of all the parties and signatories," read the letter in part.  The caucus, comprising of the Wiper Democratic Movement, Kenya African National Union (KANU), United Democratic Party (UDP), and The Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG), wants the selection of the Presidential Candidate's running mate as a Deputy Party leader addressed. It also wants the issue of increment of the members of the coalition council under the coalition political party from the initial seven to eleven sorted.  According to OKA, the number of caucuses that had been agreed upon was three as of April 1, 2022, but was presented as four on April 9, 2022.  OKA's letter came days after Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga met with partner party leaders and representatives and discussed the issue of a running mate.  "The matter of a running mate will be decided in consultation with partner constituent parties at the appropriate time," read a statement sent to newsrooms by Odinga's campaign spokesperson Professor Makau Mutua on April 7, 2022.  The leaders resolved to expand the Coalition Council and the top organ of Azimio to 11 members.  They also concluded there would be no zoning of the country for any political party and party organs would not include caucuses or alliances.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 3 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago