At the beginning of last week, many students were travelling home after they had completed their KCSE exams.  It’s a sigh of relief for many because they have cleared the crucial four years of hard work and hectic examination periods. Most of these youngsters are now at home enjoying themselves. They have no worries, now; the elephant in the house is already eradicated. No more worrying about books. The examination period, though short, was traumatic for students, teachers, parents and other government officials involved in the exercise.  But, it’s a very important passage everyone must pass through in order for individuals to move to the next level of academic life or a career.  Examinations results are subjects that hold everyone’s attention whenever it is being released. It brings lifelong changes for people. It ignites celebration or gloom among families and schools.  Since examinations are taken by many as standards assessing one's ability; many people tend to wait for results with anxiety coated in fear. Experts found out it does not define one’s intelligence, though. With time the feeling of freedom will subside in these teens. They will have little to do. They will have to devise ways of using time, constructively, while waiting for their results.  For them to manage time well before that D-day it is advisable they make peace with everyone around them by helping in doing domestic chores. They will need them to hold on to their hands when celebrating or mourning the outcome of the exams. They will need people to comfort them. Parents or guardians sacrificed their time and resources to ensure they went through their education. What is the best prize for them? These youngsters should give them time by listening to them and help in house errands where they are able. Parents and guardians often complain that their children become heady as soon they are out of school.  With the permission of their parents or guardians, they should offer to work in an organisation near home. How about seeking approval from their church authority and with the help of their peers, they can plant flowers around the church building?   If there is a commercial institution, for example, a supermarket or a flower farm, near their home and is safe to work in, they can apply for a part-time job and earn a side income. Who knows by the time they are through with it and ready to go to college or university, they will have gained experience or acquired valuable skills and even referrals that help them in their future job searches.  Joining a volunteer programme that fits their passion is helpful. They can gain experience and skills for their future career.  By Kamotho Waiganjo | 3 hours ago By Lynet Otieno | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Barrack Muluka | 3 hours ago