Tributes have come in from across the country and around the world for Kenya’s Third president Mwai Kibaki has died aged 90.  The announcement of Kibaki’s death was made by President Uhuru Kenyatta from State House yesterday. Uhuru said in a televised address: “Fellow Kenyans; It is my sorrowful duty to announce to the Nation the passing on of H.E. Emilio Mwai Kibaki, the Third President of the Republic of Kenya.”  He added: “We salute a notable father figure in the chronicles of our Nation. A leader who strove so hard and accomplished so much for his country. A Nation he so deeply cherished and served with commitment and an unbending will to improve the lives of our people.”    Kibaki’s death has led to collective mourning from across the country.  Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu said she was deeply saddened by Kibaki’s death.  “Africa has lost one of its finest sons and a dedicated public servant,” she said.  Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni said Kibaki’s death was a sorrowful moment for the people of Kenya, the East African Community and the African Continent.  “Mzee Mwai Kibaki was a transformational leader and a true Pan-Africanist. While at the helm of Kenya’s leadership, he played a fundamental role in achieving socio-economic transformation and prosperity for the Kenyan people. He was active in deepening the roots of African unity and cooperation for peace, development and security,” Museveni said.  He said Kibaki would be remembered for his faithful & excellent service to his motherland & Africa. Somaliland president Muse Bihi Abdi said he was also deeply saddened by the death and offered his condolences to his family and the country.  ODM leader Raila Odinga, who served as Prime Minister from 2008 to 2013 under the grand coalition government, mourned the loss of a friend and someone he worked closely with.   Recalling instances in the Cabinet, Raila said Kibaki was in his best element whenever an issue came up in Cabinet that brought to the fore the intersection between politics, public policy and service delivery.  “At such times, he would merge his long career in politics with his rich academic background and assume the position of a listener,” said Raila.  Kibaki, Raila said, believed in teamwork and professionalism.   “We are thankful for the economic progress he presided over, the social security policies he unveiled that we continue to cherish. We have no option but to build from where he left us.”  Deputy President William Ruto pointed out Kibaki’s humble beginnings and eventual rise to power by sheer will and hard work.  “The late President Kibaki was born into a humble family struggling, as did millions of other Kenyans, at the bitter end of colonial domination. By applying himself admirably to his studies in threadbare rural schools,” said Ruto, listing Kibaki’s educational achievements.  As President, “Mwai Kibaki ensured that in his tenure, Kenyans were productive, that they earned better incomes, that government services and infrastructure actually reached and served them, and that public institutions supported his vision and work”.  “Mwai Kibaki expanded the revenue base, exponentially increased revenue collection and feed Kenya of debt. He initiated highly impactful infrastructure projects whose purposes were consistent with his vision,” said Ruto.  KANU chairman Gideon Moi said Kibaki will be remembered for the economic progress Kenya made in the decade he was in office.  “His focused style of leadership continues to be a reference point on how to steer a country towards a recovery path. His politics too was gentlemanly devoid of sideshows that usually characterise our political arena,” Moi said.  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka said Kibaki’s least heralded qualities was his ability to re-steer our constitutional ambition.  “Less than five years from the costly defeat by the people of the Wako Constitutional Draft at the November 2005 Referendum, President Kibaki promulgated the 2010 Constitution of Kenya on 27th August 2010,” he said.  “We owe him a debt of gratitude. President Kibaki made everyone feel at home”.  By Jacinta Mutura | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 4 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 6 hours ago