New look DCI Headquarters along Kiambu road. [Samson Wire, Standard]  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) says it is has taken over investigations into the death of Ebbie Samuels, a student at Gatanga CCM Secondary School in Murang'a County.   Until her death, Ebbie was a Form One student at the school which has since changed its name to St Anuarite Gatanga Girls Secondary.  Ebbie's body was found lifeless on March 9, 2019. The school administration told her mother that she fell from her bed at night.  She was then rushed to a hospital in Thika town. Her mother said she was called and told to go to the said hospital, where she found her dead daughter. The school principal told her that she died on the way to the hospital that morning. “A post mortem conducted by the government pathologist revealed that Ebbie died as a result of blunt force trauma due to head injury,” DCI said.  Authorities said after visiting the school and talking to students, a common thread popped up where witnesses were unwilling to come forward with information.  Police said the statements recorded so far contradict the account given by the school.  “The team has established that on the fateful night, Ebbie had been assaulted severely by a senior member of the school’s administration on allegations that her hair had been styled contrary to school regulations and it happened during evening preps time, before the 9 pm bedtime bell rang."   Detectives added that they are also investigating a conspiracy to defeat justice by the school’s administration. According to DCI, students opened up more on the incident when they recorded statements from their homes.  Authorities have assured witnesses of anonymity if they record statements saying they are at an advanced stage in the investigations.   Ebbie’s family will be joined by some members of the public in a peaceful march today from the Jevanjee Gardens to the office of the President where they will present a petition to have action taken.  By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Mate Tongola | 7 hours ago By Betty Njeru and Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 10 hours ago By Grace Ng’ang’a | 20 hours ago