President Uhuru Kenyatta’s kin are among the big names that failed to clinch the Jubilee Party tickets for various elective seats in Kiambu ahead of the August 9 polls.  Unlike in the 2013 and 2017 elections when the President's kin secured tickets for various elective seats and went ahead to win, this time it appears the stakes were high.  For the governor race the President’s cousin Anne Nyokabi was not able to convince the panel conducting the party nomination interviews why they should give her the ticket instead of the incumbent Governor James Nyoro.  In 2017 elections, Ms Nyokabi lost the Women Rep seat to Gathoni Wamuchomba.  In the interviews that started on April 19 at the Windsor Golf & Country Club, the party opted to give Dr Nyoro the Jubilee ticket. The governor will battle it out with Senator Kimani Wamatangi (UDA), former Governor William Kabogo (Tujibebe), Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria (Chama Cha Kazi) and a host of independent candidates.    Uhuru's cousin, Ngengi Muigai also failed to clinch the Jubilee ticket for Gatundu South parliamentary seat. Kiambu Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi will fly the Jubilee flag.   In Kiambaa constituency, the party settled on former Kiambu County Director of Liaison Damaris Waiganjo leaving out businessman Kariri Njama, who narrowly lost in last year’s by-election.  Mr Kariri has vowed to contest as an independent saying the interview was not fair. The duo will face off with incumbent John Njuguna Wanjiku of UDA.    Similarly in Juja, the ruling party shut the doors on Susan Waititu who lost to George Koimburi in a by-election in May last year. Instead, the party gave a direct ticket to Aloise Kinyanjui, who had previously expressed his intention to vie for the seat on his brother Mr Kuria’s CCK party ticket.  Mr Kinyanjui will battle it out with Mr Koimburi who is defending the seat on UDA ticket.  In the Senate race, the Jubilee Party settled on George Maara and he will face off with UDA’s Karugo Wathangwa and CCK’s Michel Waikenda.  The incumbent Woman Representative Wamuchomba who will fly the UDA flag will battle it out with Githunguri MP Kago Wa Lydia (Jubilee).  Former MP Esther Gathogo (Jubilee) will face off with Simon King’ara (UDA) in the race for Ruiru parliamentary seat.  Jubilee’s Jude Njomo will be up against UDA’s Waithaka John Machua in Kiambu Town MP race while Jubilee picked incumbent MP Jonah Mburu to face off with Joseph Kahangara (UDA) in Lari.   In Limuru Peter Mwathi is up against former MP Eng John Kiragu (UDA)while Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe will face off with her political nemesis Njenja Francis Kigo (UDA).  Jubilee opted for consensus and interviews to avoid fallout after the primaries.  The interview panel comprised of Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia, his Principal Secretary Joseph Njoroge, Interior CAS Winnie Guchu, Communication Authority chair Ngene Gituku, Mt Kenya University chair Simon Gicharu, retired Anglican bishop Peter Njenga, Muthoni Kimani, a retired Solicitor General, and former KenGen CEO Eddy Njoroge.  The interviews which were taking approximately 30 minutes, ended and according to sources, results are expected today amid complaints by a section of aspirants who are unhappy with the process.  By Boniface Gikandi | 23 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 23 hours ago By Yahya Mahinda | 5 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 6 days ago