Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has enumerated Jubilee government policies that boosted economic growth.  Mr Yatani said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government has seen growth of the economy for the last five years with macro-economic stability and inflation rates and interests remaining stable.  He pointed out that in 2017, the government progressively implemented policies and programmes under the Big Four Agenda to foster socio-economic development although it was disrupted by coronavirus pandemic which “slowed down its full implementation.”  To boost the economy and improve livelihoods the government has formulated a programme that will offer security to citizens and their property while fostering a secure and conducive business environment.  He said that the formula will scale up development of critical infrastructure in roads, railways and energy to promote the country’s competitiveness. Yatani said the country has achieved monumental milestones especially at the macro-economic levels.  The CS also said economic growth averaging 4.6 per cent has been realised over the same period. This includes  a recovery of 7.6 per cent in 2021 from a contraction of 0.3 per cent in 2020.  He also commended the government’s Big Four Agenda saying it has immensely improved the economy.  Yatani said the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) has led to creation of jobs while 6.5 million Kenyans have so far used it.  The CS noted that the construction of additional 5,000km of  roads across the country which facilitated efficient movement of people and goods.  Yattani said the Jubilee government has tripled power generation from 1300 watts to 3900 watts of which 7.3 per cent is from green sources.  “This has therefore consolidated Kenya as a leading generation of green energy in Africa,” he said.  “Increasing the households connected to electricity has been done to more than 8.3 million homes to day compared to 2.3 million in 2013,” he said.     By Too Jared | 45 minutes ago By Mate Tongola | 52 minutes ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 hour ago By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago