Police in Murang'a County are investigating whether a tiff over a lost phone could have led to a night arson tragedy that left six close relatives dead.  In the suspected arson attack, Mary Wangui (58), her daughters, Cecilia Gathoni (30), and Lucy Mumbi (18) died.  Police identified the others, who perished in the night fire in the permanent, corrugated iron sheet roofed bungalow as Jackline Wambui (7), Alvin Kiarie (3), and Margaret Wanja (16), who were Gathoni's children.    Mumbi had just completed her secondary school education at Nguthuru Secondary School, while Wanja, was a form two student at St Michael Girls High School near Kenol township. Ms Wangui's extended family lived in a family bungalow alongside the family of her sister, Alice Nyambura, who together with her two children escaped unhurt in the midnight incident.  Wangui and Nyambura are sisters, who returned to the family home after failed marriages.  The two families shared a room after their mother relocated to Nguthuru market, which is located a 100metres.  Their late father Joseph Njoroge, who died 21 years ago had owned the property.  Murang’a County Police Commander Ali Nuno said one suspect connected with the family was under arrest and helping in the investigations.  Family sources said the dispute over a missing phone could have led to the incident, but details are still scanty.  Detectives said preliminary investigations revealed that a room, where the six succumbed had been locked from the outside, making escape impossible for the victims.  At the scene, the bodies of the six were huddled together in one of the bedrooms and detectives from the Homicide Department were trying to establish if the deceased were in the same room or rushed there in a bid to escape from the raging inferno.  Ms Margaret Njora, a neighbour, said they were woken up by the fire and responded immediately, and assisted to put off the fire before the fire brigade from Murang’a County Government arrived.  “It is a tragedy that an entire family has been wiped out. We leave it to God as it is painful to lose all those people at once,” said Ms Njora.  The Murang’a County Police Commander, who visited the scene said the family had been embroiled in a land dispute after the death of their father.  “The homicide department of DCI has taken over the scene, gathering information to establish what happened,” said Mr Nuno.  The bodies, he said, were moved to General Kago Funeral Home at the Thika Level 5 Hospital to await an autopsy.  By Daniel Chege | 2 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 3 hours ago By Ibrahim Karanja | 4 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 5 hours ago