The message of peace dominated Palm Sunday celebrations in churches across the country.  Kakamega Catholic Bishop Joseph Obanyi underscored the need for leaders to preach peace during campaigns ahead of the polls.  The bishop told leaders to humble themselves and continue spreading peace and love among Kenyans.  Christians celebrated the day Jesus Christ triumphantly entered Jerusalem by holding processions while wielding palms.  Bishop Obanyi led hundreds of faithful in a procession through the streets of Kakamega town to St Joseph’s Cathedral Church for a mass. The procession caused a traffic snarl-up along Kakamega–Mumias road as the faithful marched slowly carrying the palms and singing praises.  In Lurambi sub-county, Father William Musando of Holy Family Catholic Parish Lubao led the faithful at Mwinaya sub-parish in Palm Sunday mass.  He urged leaders and Kenyans to love one another, so as to make the a good place for everyone.  Father Musando also told politicians to embrace peaceful campaigns ahead of the elections.  Head of the Ecumenical Catholic Church of Christ Kenya Rev Godfrey Siundu Wasike urged politicians to focus on uniting the people.  He said it was wrong for some politicians to sow discord among Kenyans ahead of the elections.  “They should stop dividing the country between the party and tribal lines, this country belongs to all Kenyans,” he said.  In Nakuru, Catholic Diocese Apostolic Administrators Bishop David Kamau warned youths from South Rift against being used to cause chaos.  Bishop Kamau said the youth will bear the brunt of the chaos if they fall prey to individuals out to misuse them.  “The blood you shed will be on your hands. You will not only lose your loved ones but also peace of mind,” he said.  Bishop Kamau presided over his first Palm Sunday mass after Bishop Maurice Muhatia moved to the Archdiocese of Kisumu.  He held the mass for the youths from Nakuru, Baringo, Samburu and West Pokot and Narok Counties in Nakuru town.  The Bishop told the youths to only participate in campaigns that will benefit them.  “Ask leaders what they will do for you before fighting or killing for them. Demand answers on their plans for you,” he said.  In Nyeri, Christians thronged the roads to celebrate Palm Sunday after a two-year break due to Covid-19 restrictions.  Sister Ellah Makena of Our Lady of Consolata Catholic church who also belongs to Companion Sisters of the Little Flowers, was elated to participate in the procession.  “Grateful to God that we are back to worshiping after a forced break due to the pandemic. This means we shall observe Easter with compassion and thanks,” Sister Makena noted.  [Reports by Omelo Juliet, Sharon Wanga, Daniel Chege and Mose Sammy]  By Daniel Chege | 2 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 3 hours ago By Ibrahim Karanja | 4 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 5 hours ago