You can now send a tribute or a condolence message for the late president Mwai Kibaki’s family in the comfort of your home, the State House has announced.  All you need is an internet-enabled gadget, as opposed to walking to various state offices to sign the condolence book or going to view the body in parliament.  The departed president’s body has been lying in state for the last two days and is expected there for the third and final day tomorrow (Wednesday) ahead of the state funeral service on Friday.  According to a Tweet by State House on Tuesday evening, Mzee Kibaki’s state funeral committee implemented a digital condolence website, to give Kenyans an equal opportunity to mourn and share their last thoughts of their fallen hero.  “Mzee Kibakis State funeral planning Committee has implemented a Digital Condolences website to eulogise him and allow for the submission of condolence messages through the link below; https://mwaikibaki.go.ke Please use the link above to pass your message of condolences,” State House has notified the public. To send a message of condolence or tribute, visit the website shared (https://mwaikibaki.go.ke) and click on the ‘Send Tribute’ bar.  Once you get there, fill in your name, title and email address then type in your intended message and submit.  On the website, the president, senior state officials of the EAC and local leaders have also shared their condolence messages to Mzee Kibaki’s family.  “… while Emilio Mwai Kibaki is no longer with us in body, his spirit, legacy, values and ideals live on in you and in the limitless ways that he made Kenya immeasurably better. Mwai Kibaki lives on in the hearts of millions of Kenyans, East Africans and Africans who benefited from his leadership admired his character, and were inspired by his example. Mwai Kibaki lives on in our fond memories of his strength of will, charm, wit, and his passionate love of God, Family, Nation, and Humanity,” president Kenyatta’s tribute read in part.  “Africa has lost one of its finest sons and a dedicated public servant. My condolences to H.E. President Uhuru Kenyatta, the bereaved family and all,” Tanzania’s president Samia Suluhu also said.  Then Burundian Head of State Evariste Ndayishimiye said “It is with deep sorrow and sadness that I learnt of the passing of H.E. Mwai Kibaki, former President of Kenya. My deepest condolences to his family, my brother Uhuru Kenyatta and to all the people of Kenya. May his soul rest in eternal peace,”  The country's third Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces will be buried on Saturday, April 30, at his home in Othaya, Nyeri County.  By Brian Otieno | 25 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 35 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 40 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 45 minutes ago