The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) has issued a warning to helicopter operators against endangering the lives of Kenyans at political rallies.  This comes days after a man was caught on video hanging onto the skids of a helicopter that had taken off.  The Director-General of KCAA Gilbert Kibe has warned politicians against addressing crowds near choppers, saying the offence is punishable by license revocation and hefty fines.  “KCAA would like to express serious concerns in the manner in which helicopter operations are undertaken outside controlled aerodromes. Incidents on record have posed an unnecessary danger to persons and property. Members of the public have also been seen to approach the landing and take-off sites, unaware of the danger they expose themselves to,” said Kibe.  In an April 6 letter to helicopter managers and operators, Kibe directed that the security of the aircraft as well as the suitability of the landing zones were the responsibilities of the operator and pilot respectively. The requirement is to land and take off at least three kilometres from the activity venue and to ensure at least a 30-metre radius from where people are.  “From today, KCAA is putting operators on notice. Violators risk enforcement action, which includes monetary penalties and or losing their licenses, approvals and authorisations under the Civil Aviation Act,” said Kibe.  Unsafe incidents involving helicopters and people have been witnessed on some occasions, especially when a public figure visits a remote area for a public event.  On April 1, a helicopter carrying Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga was stoned during take-off in Uasin Gishu County.  The aircraft was allegedly attacked by an angry mob as the ODM leader was leaving the burial of businessman Jackson Kibor in Kabenes, Soy Constituency. Seventeen (17) suspects were arrested in connection with the incident.  A month before that, during the burial of former Mt. Elgon MP John Serut, two men hanged onto a helicopter that was taking off.  The aircraft was carrying Kenya Kwanza alliance leaders, who were leaving the funeral service at Kapsokwony Boys’ High School in Bungoma County. This forced the pilot to lower the aircraft.  The two men then jumped off the helicopter as residents watched in disbelief. The two were arrested but later released.  By Amos Kareithi | 50 minutes ago By Dominic Omondi | 50 minutes ago By Macharia Kamau | 1 hour ago By Antony Gitonga | 9 hours ago