IEBC Vice Chairperson Juliana Cherera. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has shuffled its staff across the country to enhance the credibility of the August 9 general election.  Vice Chair Juliana Cherera yesterday said the commission transferred employees to ensure they are not arm-twisted by politicians who are familiar to them.  Speaking during the launch of the 2022 general election strategy by Human Rights Agenda (Huria) in Diani, Kwale County, Ms Cherera said the commission is encouraging women to go for elective positions.  She urged women to take up the opportunity on May 2 and register as independent candidates if they missed a chance in party nominations. “May 2 provides a window of opportunity for women to register as independent candidates,” she said, adding that the IEBC has reduced nomination fees by half for women.  Ms Cherera warned bloggers against cyberbullying targeting female aspirants, saying they would be dealt with as they were out to frustrate efforts to achieve the two-thirds gender principle.    “There is online violence targeting women through the use of offensive content,” she warned.  Huria executive director Mr Yusuf Lule said the general election strategy would strengthen institutions against violence and encourage women, youth, and people living with disability to participate in the polls.  “The strategy that covers Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi counties is multi-sectoral and will focus on strengthening institutions against electoral violence.”  Acting chief executive officer Mr Tom Were said the strategy was also meant to get more women, youth and people living with a disability on the ballot in the next polls. “The big focus is for women and youth to get to positions of leadership through civic education,” he said.  Ms Cherera said in 2017, there was no female presidential candidate or running mate and only three female governors and three female senators were elected.  By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 4 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 4 hours ago By Dennis Tarus | 6 hours ago