Members of the six East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) have kicked off a week-long sensitisation forum with business stakeholders and regulatory bodies to streamline trade in the region.  The meeting brings together investors in the banking sector, academia, business associations as well as regulatory government bodies in effort to raise public awareness about the regional common market protocol.    "The combination of the outcomes in Kenya and the rest of the partner states, will also be incorporated into the workings of EALA, and oversight and policy initiatives for EAC citizens," said Kennedy Musyoka, EALA member from Kenya.  Musyoka was accompanied by his colleagues Aden Omar, Oburu Odinga and Adan Noor. Among the key objectives targeted in the sensitisation forum include free movement of goods, services and capital, right to establishment and residence within the six-member states.  The key sectoral areas envisaged under the common market protocol in East Africa include customs, agriculture and food security, energy and trade.  Others are health, immigration and labour, culture, tourism and natural resources, as well as investment promotion and private sector development.  The gathering comes a week after the Democratic Republic of Congo joined EAC as the seventh member of the trading bloc comprising Kenya, Burundi, Kenya Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda.  According to Musyoka the entry of DRC into the community is a significant milestone that will expand the market and spur the much-needed impetus for members to do business beyond Kenya and therefore maximise the benefits from the regional integration.  "Significant enhancement of cross-border infrastructure to enhance the ease of doing business have been recorded. EALA remains steadfast in its commitment to ensure the aspirations of all EAC citizens are taken into account as it carries on with its mandate," said Musyoka.   By Betty Njeru | 20 minutes ago By Patrick Vidija | 32 minutes ago By Macharia Kamau | 2 hours ago By Macharia Kamau and Dominic Omondi | 3 hours ago