Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma (left), Ugenya MP and MDG leader David Ochieng (centre) and Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch before they got nomination certificates yesterday. [Denish Ochieng, Standard  ODM aspirants in Siaya and Western who hoped for a smooth ride during the August 9 elections will now face off with new entrants fronted by the Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG).  Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyongo will face off with his predecessor Jacktone Ranguma as the latter joined the race under MDG, led by Ugenya MP David Ochieng.  Speaking after receiving the party ticket, Ranguma said he is ready for the race. “We do not have to be a sycophant to show that we support Azimio,” he said.  MDG was formed in 2017 with the backing of ODM politicians who feared exclusion from the party. It is in a coalition agreement with One Kenya Alliance, which supports Azimio’s Raila Odinga. In Kisumu, Raila’s sister Ruth Odinga will also face off with Valentine Otieno, who has an MDG ticket for Woman Rep.  In Ugunja, MP Opiyo Wandayi will not have a smooth ride to Parliament as MDG has fronted Francis Xavier Otieno for the seat. And in Busia, Mary Concilia Makokha of MDG will face off with ODM’s Catherine Omanyo.     MDG has also given a ticket to Lukalo Beatrice Afandi who will face off with ODM’s Winnie Majani for the Vihiga Woman Rep seat.  In Siaya, Woman Rep Christine Ombaka will have a new competitor after Sella Ayimba, a veteran radio presenter, was cleared to contest under MDG.  Matungu MP Peter Nabulindo, who secured the ODM party ticket will face off with Indikwa Maurice Buluma of MDG.  Butula ODM MP Joseph Oyula, will also square it out with Odhiambo Alfred Bwire of MDG.  In Teso North, MP Oku Kaunya of ODM MP will square it out with  Enapat Ramaina Charles of MDG.  In total, some 118 candidates received certificates to contest various seats through MDG. The party will present four candidates for Woman Rep in Busia, Kisumu, Vihiga and Siaya.  The party will field 11 candidates for MP positions. The rest, a total of 99 aspirants are vying for the Member of County Assembly (MCA) across the country.  Observers say the rise of MDG may mean a gradual end to ODM dominance in Nyanza where securing an Orange ticket is seen as a clear assurance of victory in the main election.  MDG party leader David Ochieng said he will defend his Ugenya MP seat under MDG.  Speaking during the ceremony, Ochieng said one of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals should be named Raila’s running mate.  “As part of OKA, MDG is still pushing for one of the OKA principals to become the deputy president,” said Ochieng.  OKA has four principals who are Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Martha Karua (Narc-Kenya) and Cyrus Jirongo (UDP).  There has been debate surrounding who will be handed the running mate title in Azimio, with Karua and Kalonzo seen as the main hopefuls.  By Harold Otieno Odhiambo and Anne Atieno | 1 day ago By Eric Abuga | 1 day ago By Harold Otieno Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago