Singorwet MCA Alfred Langat on the floor of the county assembly during the BBI Bill debate in February 2021. [Gilbert Kimutai, Standard]  The county assemblies of Bomet and Baringo will likely be dominated by new faces after the August 9 General Election.  In the just-concluded United Democratic Alliance (UDA) primaries, 17 members of Bomet County Assembly were shown the door.  Voters in the county seem to have targeted MCAs who voted in support of the collapsed Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill.  Leader of Majority Josphat Kirui, who led the House in passing the Bill, was the first casualty of the nominations. Mr Kirui was trounced by little known Dancel Kirui for the Ndaraweta Ward seat. His crime, voters said, was going against Deputy President William Ruto’s stand.  Ivor Korir, a political analyst in Bomet, said the MCAs were paying the price for choosing selfish interests against the wishes of the people.  “The car grants promise and claims of bribery to pass the Bill gave reasons to the electorate to vote out the MCAs and they will blame themselves for the defeat,” said Mr Korir.  Deputy Majority Leader Josea Chepkwony was another victim.  Mr Chepkwony lost to Josea Laboso at Chebunyo ward nominations. Chief Whip Davis Langat also lost by a wide margin to his predecessor Stephen Changmorik, who is seeking a comeback.  Mr Langat’s Deputy Winny Bore’s attempt to clinch Mogogosiek Ward seat UDA ticket also failed.  Mrs Bore, a nominated MCA, was floored together with her elected colleague Ambrose Koech.  County Assembly Roads and Transport Committee Chairman Alfred Langat lost his bid to defend the Singorwet Ward seat. He was accused of forgetting his oversight role and engaging in tenders and contracts.  Mr Langat, however, refuted claims of being a contractor while conceding defeat to Benard Ngetich, another newcomer.  Laxity  Vocal MCA Robert Serbai was another big loser in the UDA nominations. The Public Accounts and Investment Committee chairman could not defend himself from accusations of laxity in oversight.  He, however, conceded defeat, saying he was happy to have served Embamos for 20 years.  Another casualty was the County Assembly Trade and Investment Committee chairperson David Maritim, who was defending his Ndanai Ward seat.  Chemaner MCA Chesang Arwasa, who has been chairing the Gender Committee, lost to Richard Kigaru.  Kembu Ward Rep Richard Kelong was another victim. Mr Kelong, who chairs the Education and Vocational Training Committee, emerged a distant third.  Land, Housing and Urban Planning Chairman Zadock Kilel also lost. Other losers are Leonard Kirui (Siongiroi), Kipngeno Barchok (Chesoen), Richard Chirchir (Kapletundo).  In Baringo County, only 10 out of 21 members secured tickets to defend their seats in the August polls.  Sylas Tochim, Dr Ruto’s diehard supporter, failed to secure the party ticket to defend the Tenges ward seat.  In Baringo Central, Ernest Kibet (Kabarnet ward), Peter Kebut Ewalel (Chapchap) and John Tarus (Sacho) were able to secure the party tickets to defend their seats.  Kapropita MCA Jennifer Kabon was beaten by Alex Kiprono but Nixon Lemlen of Marigat ward and his Mochongoi counterpart Kipruto Kimosop secured their tickets.   newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke       By Irissheel Shanzu | 5 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 6 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 2 days ago