Some smaller parties in Azimio la Umoja have accused the coalition's top decision-making organ of sidelining them.    Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) and Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) officials demanded that all parties that form Azimio La Umoja be involved in key decisions or they will walk out, a move that may threaten ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid.  The fringe parties accused the coalition's leaders Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee as well as Azimio La Umoja secretariat of shortchanging them, claiming they do not even know the contents of the agreement that was deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties on Saturday.  They demanded fresh negotiations of the coalition agreement that will see them recognised as equal coalition partners and involved in making decisions.  The outfits are also demanding representation in the Azimio la Umoja Council. They also want a role in the determination of Raila's running mate. On Sunday, the first deputy party leader of DAP-K Ayub Savula claimed they do not know the contents of the agreement that was signed when Azimio was birthed.  "Smaller parties in the coalition have been shortchanged. We are witnessing many roadside declarations and the question we have been asking ourselves is; when and how are these decisions being made? Most of these decisions are being made without our input. Everything is being done in secrecy and we are not ready for any more surprises," said the Lugari MP who spoke in Kakamega town on Sunday.  He added: "The smaller parties have no representation in the coalition's governing council. We feel our interests are not being taken care of."  "We have proposed to have Narc party leader and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu as well as Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa to sit in the council to represent the interests of smaller parties in the coalition,” said Savula.  Currently, the coalition's council is made up of nominees from Jubilee, ODM, and Wiper.  Chama cha Uzalendo, Maendeleo Chap Chap, Muungano Party, United Progressive Alliance, Party of National Unity, and Maendeleo Democratic Party have also expressed their displeasure with the way Azimio La Umoja is being run.  "We want to have a say in the nomination of the person who will be Raila's running mate. And the secrecy around Raila's deputy should end. We must be consulted on this matter and our input put into consideration failure to which we will look for other options,” said Savula.  He added: "We are aware of deals some people are trying to seal secretly in their efforts to impose someone on us as Raila's running mate. We reject that attempt. Everything should be done in the open and all members allowed to make their contribution."  Earlier, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua who had met his Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) party delegates at the KICC in Nairobi, had also lamented that smaller parties have been locked out of the coalition's decisions.  "We have been sidelined by the Azimio la Umoja top decision-making organ and that's unfair. We demand respect in the coalition. We are equal partners," said Mutua.   He however said he had accessed the Azimio One Kenya agreement pledging to continue supporting Raila's presidential bid.  DAP-K boss Wafula Wamunyinyi maintained that there should be no zoning of regions saying: "Parties within the coalition should be allowed to field candidates in all other elective seats save for that of the President."  “Raila is our presidential candidate but we shall have candidates for other elective seats. We already have candidates for the rest of the seats. We are looking forward to a healthy competition within the Azimio la Umoja,” said Wamunyinyi.  Ms Emmanuela Mulaa, a political scientist from the University of Nairobi, said Raila and President Kenyatta may be in for a rude shock if they ignore parties in the coalition.   She said Uhuru and Raila must seek ways to resolve issues that have been raised otherwise, it will negatively impact Raila's presidential bid.   "If the smaller parties stage a walkout and join Kenya Kwanza, Raila will have to forget about the presidency. The game will be over," said Ms Mulaa.  By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi and Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 9 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 9 hours ago