Patrick Shikure Amere at Milimani court on Wednesday. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  A prisoner charged with impersonation wants Kamiti prison officers charged for being part of his con racket.  Patrick Shikure Amere, appearing before Milimani Chief Magistrate Susan Shitubi, told court his accomplices were prison officers.   Amere, who is serving life, was in court for a mention of a new case against him on Wednesday. "Your honor, I would like the court to give an order for me to record a statement with police and name the prison officers I collaborated with to acquire the money," Amere said, adding that his mission was made possible through collaboration of the officers.  On February 12, while appearing before trial Chief Magistrate Wendy Kagendo, Amere admitted to swindling a job seeker of Sh800,000. He had allegedly impersonated Defense CS Mr Eugene Wamalwa. Ms Shitubi, sitting in for Kagendo, directed that Amere be presented in court again on April 13.  At the time he was charged, Amere had been at Kamiti prison, where he has been a prisoner for 15 years.    The charge sheet stated that on diverse dates between July 24, and September 11, 2020, jointly with another suspect also before the court, with intent to defraud, he obtained Sh800,000 from Dr Selina Vukinu Ambe.  Amere and his accomplice told Ambe by paying the money, she would secure a job in the public service. Prosecutor Harrison Gikunda told Kagendo the accused met the victim by befriending her on Facebook and introduced himself as Mr Wamalwa.  He said the accused advised the complainant to send him her CV so he could deliver it to State House for the position of human resources manager.  According to Mr Gikunda, the victim forwarded her CV. "Amere made a fake appointment letter purportedly signed by the head of the civil service Joseph Kinyua," said Mr Gikunda.  According to the fake letter dated August 5, 2020, Ambe was to  report to work on August 7, 2020.  The court was told the complainant discovered she had been conned after Amere's phone went off for several days. She reported the matter to police and investigations led the officers to Kamiti prison.  By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 4 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 4 hours ago By Dennis Tarus | 6 hours ago