Kenya’s third President Mwai Kibaki is dead.  Kibaki has died aged 90, President Uhuru Kenyatta has confirmed the death in a televised address to the nation.  “As a leading figure in Kenya’s post-indepedence history, Mwai Kibaki earned the abiding respect and affection of the people of this nation and other nations throughout the world,” said President Kenyatta in his address.  “President Kibaki will forever be remembered as a gentleman in Kenyan politics.  “He was a brilliant debater, whose eloquence wit and charm won the day, time and time again. “His contributions in the Ministry of Finance and as Kenya’s Vice-President saw the country’s economy grow steadily.  “Believing that Kenya was once again ripe for vibrant multi-democracy, President Kibaki exited from government and led the charge of keeping the ruling party accountable.  “His contributions to the restoration of multi-party democracy, as the leader of the official opposition, combined with his track record and impressive credentials made Mwai Kibaki the natural choice for selection as the opposition consensus candidate against my own candidature in 2002 and the presidential elections that followed thereafter.”  Following Mwai Kibaki’s death, President Kenyatta ordered that flags be flown at half-mast from today (Friday, April 22, 2022) until the burial day of Mwai Kibaki. Uhuru further said the former President will be accorded State Funeral.  The President also ordered that his motorcade and those of the Deputy President, Chief Justice, Speakers of both Houses of Parliament and all Diplomats should not fly the Kenyan flag until Mwai Kibaki is buried.  Kibaki will be accorded a State send-off with full military honours, President Kenyatta said.  Mwai Kibaki is survived by four children Judy Wanjiku, Jimmy Kibaki, David Kagai and Tony Githinji.  The late Kibaki served as Kenya's President between 2003 and 2013.  By Nderitu Gichure | 2 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 2 hours ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago