Calls for peace during the electioneering period dominated speeches as Christians thronged churches to celebrate Easter Sunday, a day marked to remember the resurrection of Jesus.  At Nakuru’s Christ the King Cathedral, the Diocese’s apostolic administrator Bishop David Kamau cautioned the youth against being used to cause violence during and after the polls.  He challenged the youth to be peacemakers as the political campaigns enter the penultimate stage.    Bishop Kamau warned that chaos in any part will affect the whole country. “If a house is burning, all the people in it will be destroyed whether they were peacemakers or violent ones,” he said.  Pastor Mike Brawan of Metro Church said it was a special Easter since Muslims are also celebrating Ramadhan.  Brawan urged Kenyans to shun politicians who cause fracas.  In Kisumu, Catholic Archbishop Maurice Muhatia, during his homily at St James Magadi parish in Manyatta slums, urged the Christians to make wise choices.  Fr Francis Konyach of Our Lady of Perpetual Help, Ahero Parish emphasised the unity of the country through structured dialogue and asked political leaders to take the day to reflect on their decisions.  “Let us all reflect on unity and diversity while appreciating the dignity Christ restored in churches. Let his wisdom guide us during this electioneering period,” Konyach said.  In Busia, the Catholic faithful congregated at Dakhiro Church in Funyula for the special prayers.  In Bungoma, Pastor David Malaria of St Martha ACK Church in Chwele preached about the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus. Christians were urged to preach peace and unity among all Kenyans.  At Emmanuel ACK Parish at Wehoya Farm, Kitale, the Rev Daniel Simiyu urged Kenyans to love each other irrespective of tribe.  He further prayed for peace in the country as the August election nears.  n Murang'a, Kenol ACK Cathedral, Bishop Julius Karanu called on Kenyans to demonstrate peace in the year and avoid being carried away by electoral euphoria. At AIPCA Kenol, musicians led by Heze Ndung'u spiced the day as they entertained the congregation.  At ACK Trinity Utawala in Machakos Diocese, the Rev Ann Kieni prayed for a peaceful election.  “As we celebrate risen Christ, we pray for God’s blessing for a peaceful country,” Rev Kieni said.  [Reports by Daniel Chege, Omelo Juliet, Mactilda Mbenywe, Boniface Gikandi and Anne Atieno]  By Amos Kareithi | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni and Nzau Musau | 6 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 10 hours ago