United Democratic Alliance (UDA) kicked off nationwide nominations on April 14, 2022. [Standard]  There was confusion in Taita Taveta county today after some UDA supporters streamed to polling stations only to find that there were no nominations.  “I did not go to work today because I wanted to participate in the nominations but I was shocked to learn that there were no nominations,” said Rose Maplastic, a UDA supporter and trader in Mwatate town.  John Righa Mwachafi who is a Senate aspirant protested over the issuance of direct tickets. Police were deployed at the UDA party headquarters in Mwatate town to avert chaos.  “We are asking our party leader Dr William Ruto to intervene to ensure that we get justice. We paid nomination fees and we demand nominations be done immediately or else we will join Azimio la Umoja among other parties," Mr Mwachafi said. Others who protested were aspirants Idris Mohammed (Marungu ward), Daniel Odhiambo (Mwatate ward) and Bonface Mghendi Mwarema (Rong’ee).  "We do not want a situation where leaders are imposed on the people as this will impact negatively on the DP in the region if not checked,” warned Mr Mohammed.  Mr Odhiambo questioned why the party was reneging on its earlier promise that it will conduct free and fair nominations. “The party has been advocating for free and fair nominations. The DP risks losing support in the region if nominations are not conducted to pick the best candidates,” he warned.  Mwarema said Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya met delegates from Voi, Wundanyi, Mwatate and Taveta constituencies last week where he assured all aspirants that the party will conduct free, fair and peaceful nominations to avert fallout.  "Losers in the primaries should support the winners as those who will stand firm with the party after primaries will be rewarded with nominations and other positions in government if Dr Ruto wins the August polls,” Governor Mvurya assured the aspirants in his recent two-day tour of the county.  UDA county coordinator Scaver Masale said Taita Taveta was not among the 36 counties listed to hold party nominations. He said all aspirants had been notified by the party’s National Election Board (NEB) that there will be no nominations in the region.  Masale however said no aspirant has been issued with a certificate to vie for any position and there was no preferred candidate.  Taita-Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika denied claims that UDA had issued direct tickets to preferred candidates for the August 9 General Election.  “Even though I have no opponent to challenge me in the primaries, I have not been given a direct ticket,” revealed Ms Haika who is defending her seat.  She however noted those protesting over party nominations were called by the UDA National Election Board where they were informed that there will be no nominations in the county.  “Why are they complaining today? They should have raised their concerns with the NEB and party Secretary-General when they held a consultative meeting in Nairobi.  All aspiring candidates are still waiting for the party ticket,” clarified Ms Haika.  She said the county was not among the 36 counties listed to hold party primaries.  “NEB sent a memo to all party supporters listing the areas where nominations will be held and Taita-Taveta was not among them and every member is aware of the party decision,” Ms Haika stated.  By Ishaq Jumbe | 5 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 22 hours ago By Kelvin Karani | 2 days ago By Marion Kithi | 3 days ago