At least three ODM parliamentary aspirants in Kisii suffered a last-minute blow after the party awarded direct tickets to their rivals.  Most shocking among other aspirants is the issuance of a direct ticket to Masige East MCA Davins Onuso who is eyeing the Bobasi parliamentary seat.  Until recently, Onuso, who is also the Kisii County Assembly Deputy Speaker, had been campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto.  He joined ODM and was listed among the three aspirants who were seeking the party ticket for Bobasi parliamentary seat. The other two were Yobesh Oyaro and Wilkins Michira.  Oyaro, in the company of his supporters, attended the Wednesday meeting at Bomas where party aspirants were issued tickets. Both Oyaro and Michira said the party had unfairly issued the tickets.  In Bonchari, area MP Pavel Oimeke said he will run as an independent candidate.  "This is unfair, against all odds, I deserved the ticket," said Oimeke.  Former Nyaribari Chache MP Chris Bichage also appeared shocked by the turn of events after James Kenani was awarded the ticket.  Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati was finally issued his certificate in his bid to succeed Governor James Ongwae.  Arati has been fighting claims of lacking proper academic papers. A graduation list on Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University's website shows that the legislator will be graduating with Master's in Business Administration on April 22, 2022.  He is said to have graduated from the same university with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in International Relations and Diplomacy in 2016.  Speaking after receiving the certificate, Mr Arati said he is now focussing on delivering the seat for ODM.  "I am not fighting anybody. We must hold peaceful campaigns and embrace all those who want Kisii County to move forward," he said.  Last week some petitioners had written to ODM, through lawyer Peter Wanyama, requesting to be supplied with Arati's academic papers.  Arati's clearance by the party means he will face other aspirants, including Prof Sam Ongeri (DAP-K), Chris Obure (Jubilee), Ezikel Machogu (UDA) and Manson Nyamweya (KNC).  The ODM governorship candidate will also be joined by Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka who is vying for the Senate seat. In the team is also Dr Simon Monda as Arati's running mate.  By Augustine Oduor and Renee Were | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 4 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago