ODM leader Raila Odinga and Martha Karua of Narc Kenya when she joined Azimio in Nairobi. [Emmanuel Wanson]  Raila Odinga, the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate will leave for the United States (US) on Friday, April 22.   During the trip, Odinga is expeted to meet senior government officials and also address Kenyans living in the US.   Details of his itinerary were shared through a statement by Prof Makau Mutua, the Spokesperson of Raila Odinga Presidential Campaign Secretariat.  “Raila Odinga and his entourage will hold meetings with senior US government officials, senior members of the United States Congress, and key African-American leaders. He will meet and address Kenyans in the American diaspora and speak to several think tanks. These key meetings will take place at the nation’s capital in Washington DC. Mr Odinga and his delegation will then travel to San Francisco to meet with leaders and entrepreneurs in the IT and technology space,” said Mutua in a press statement on Wednesday, April 20. “Mr Odinga will take the opportunity of the visit to outline his vision for Kenya, underline the importance of the strategic and historic US/Kenya relationship and the vital interests that the two counties share in the region, promote business partnerships and investment in Kenya in IT and [general] technology, and fellowship with Kenyans abroad.”  Entourage acommpanying Raila Odinga  Odinga's entourage will inclde: Narc-Kenya Party leader Martha Karua, Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Kisii Governor James Ongwae, former Head of the Civil Service Dr Sally Kosgei, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang, Kathiani MP Robert Mbui, Campaign Spokesperson Makau Mutua and former Kenya’s Ambassador to the US Elkanah Odembo will accompany Odinga to the US.  Deputy President William Ruto also visited the US and UK in March 2022, where he alleged that there were plans to rig him out of the August 9 presidential election.  By Betty Njeru | 4 hours ago By James Omoro | 5 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 16 hours ago