Linet Chepkorir's bid for Bomet Woman Representative got a boost after Chama Cha Mashinani leaders threw their weight behind her.  CCM party leader Isaac Ruto said they support Chepkorir popularly known as Toto's bid and would marshal support for her.  Despite his party clearing nominated Senator Alice Milgo to vie for the Woman Representative post, Ruto said the party still supports Chepkorir.     Mr Ruto said Ms Chepkorir, popularly referred to as Toto, is an inspiration to the youth. Speaking during a thanksgiving ceremony for Ms Chepkorir's victory in the UDA nominations, Ruto said: “At her age, many would easily ignore her but she has enhanced people's confidence in youth leadership."  Chepkorir said her mission would be to turn around the perception of the Woman Representative post.  The ceremony at Chemamul Primary attracted candidates from UDA and CCM parties.  The two parties seemed to fight for a piece of Chepkorir’s success by associating themselves with her victory.   Toto's story is inspiring. It was a dream that many thought was a joke, but her daring spirit silenced the doubting Thomases after she bagged the UDA ticket for the county MP seat.  She exudes confidence and has this hearty laughter. She is aware of ‘dissenting voices’.  And while Toto stands a chance of being one of the youngest legislators after the 2022 General Election, the 24-year-old is confident that she will deliver what she has always wanted for her people despite her little experience.  “I graduated last year but that does not make me inexperienced. Whenever youth apply for jobs, we are always told to share experiences but where will we get that experience if we are not given a chance? For us to gain the skills, we have to be on the job to learn the ropes and that is exactly what I will do,” she adds.  Like most girls and women in the village, her daily routine entails washing dishes, cooking, and fetching firewood before heading out to campaign.   By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago By Bernard Sanga | 12 hours ago By Murimi Mwangi | 18 hours ago By Renee Were | 18 hours ago