Mary Wambui, widow of Kiambu tycoon Peter Njenga during a funeral mass at Kagwe stadium. [Fidelis Kabunyi, Standard]  A trader whose body has been in the mortuary for a month was finally buried on Wednesday. Peter Njenga, a  Kiambu businessman died on February 20, and his mistress got a court injunction against the burial until she was recognised as a second wife.  Njenga’s wife was on March, 2, slapped with a court order as family members gathered at Kenyatta University mortuary to collect his remains.  Njenga, who is associated with wealthy businesspersons, was buried in a low key ceremony.  The mistress did not attend the funeral.  During the burial, Father Herman Wanyoike of Christ the King Catholic Church, Kagwe urged men to refrain from illicit affairs. “I urge men to avoid having other women. This family has gone through the most stressful moment of their lives, especially the children. We have prayed and finally justice has prevailed. From today, as Kuria’s family let Wambui the legitimate wife be the head of Njenga’s family,” he told mourners. The wife, Mary Wambui, eulogised him as a good father, caring husband and a man with a big heart.  Githunguri MP Gabriel Kago eulogised Njenga as a genius, a breaker of glass ceilings, a bridge-builder and a philanthropist.  “If I date you and I don’t introduce you to my parents or brothers and sisters, then be assured you are not entitled to my property after my death,” Kago told mourners.  The wife, Mary Wambui, eulogised him as a good father, caring husband and a man with a big heart.  “Although we had humble beginnings, he was armed with unyielding resolve as his children have said and he was determined to conquer life’s challenges and he did,” she said.  His employees at Uplands Premium Dairy and Foods Limited said he pushed himself to the limits and built a business empire that transformed the lives of many people in Kagwe village.  His lawyer and friend Issa Mansour said he embodied hard work.  Njenga is survived by his wife and six children.  By Nderitu Gichure | 12 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 12 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 day ago By Nderitu Gichure | 2 days ago