Environmental experts have raised concern over poor management of waste across the country, terming it as a time bomb.  During a stakeholders forum yesterday in Kisii town organised by the Environmental Institute of Kenya, it was agreed that more efforts were needed to ensure proper waste management.  The institute chair Linda Munyao said environmental degradation and the impact of climate change continues to be a major challenge.    “With environment docket being a devolved function, the institute believes there is need for both levels of government (national and county) to enhance synergy in overseeing the environmental management,” said Munyao. Former director general of the National Environment Management Authority (Nema),  Prof Ratemo Michieka, decried the encroachment of wetlands, and called for urgent measures to protect the resource for the good of current and future generations.  Prof Michieka called on Kenyans to put to task those leaders vying for various positions to explain their agenda on environmental conservation since this is critical for the future wellbeing of Kenyans and humanity.  The former Nema boss said that 35 per cent of the world’s wetlands were lost between 1970 and 2015, with the loss continuing to accelerate as a result of various factors that need immediate action.  “Climate change, population increase, urbanisation especially along coastal zones and river deltas, and changing consumption patterns that have brought changes in land and water use has contributed to the loss of wetlands over the years,” said Michieka.  The former Jomo Kenyatta University of Agricultural and Technology (JKUA) vice-chancellor said the Gusii region was one of the affected areas, with land scarcity contributing to encroachment of wetlands for crop cultivation.  Kisii County Nema director Leonard Ofula revealed that there were plans to relocated the Kisii dumpsite.  By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago By Lynn Kolongei | 3 days ago By Sharon Owino | 5 days ago By Augustine Oduor and Renee Were | 8 days ago