At least five people were killed in Tigania along the Meru-Isiolo road by raiders suspected to be from the neighbouring county.  Locals suspected the Monday evening attack was retaliatory after camels were killed the previous day. Two of the five were shot near KK Kengechia Primary, just metres from the Meru-Isiolo border. A third died after the vehicle he was in was targeted by the raiders who, locals said had, started shooting around 7pm and continued for about three hours. Two others died in a separate raid on the same day.  “Police responded to distress calls. But by the time they arrived the attackers had disappeared into the night,” said a shaken resident.  Samuel Gikundi, a community leader called for urgent measures to restore security and ensure communities lived in peace. Gikundi said there was need for guns that had been taken way from police reservists to be returned. Meru Assembly Majority leader Victor Kariithi decried the insecurity that saw seven locals gunned down in January. The raiders who were armed with guns and other weapons went on a shooting spree in Mweronkoro, Lokichi, Matabithi and Johanna villages in the semi-arid area, where large chunks of land are yet to be adjudicated and titled.  The attackers from the neighbouring county were angered after residents on the Meru side protested after they refused to drive away their animals. ODM leader Raila Odinga, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya were among those who attended the burial of the seven, where appeals for re-arming reservists on the Meru side were made. Kariithi said: “We do not need any statements from the police, County Commissioner, Regional Commissioner, Interior Minister or even the President. In fact no one should say anything! All we need is action.”  Kariithi (Athwana ward) said the families of the deceased needed justice. He said families had lost bread winners and had large herds of livestock stolen in past attacks, plunging them into poverty.  By Reuters | 1 day ago By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Wainaina Ndung’u | 5 days ago