Memoirs during day one of public viewing of the body of the late former President Mwai Kibaki at Parliament buildings, Nairobi on April 25, 2022 [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta will today lead millions of Kenyans in paying their respects to late President Mwai Kibaki during a funeral service at the Nyayo National Stadium. The service will bring together leaders from different political divides who have described Kibaki as an outstanding economist, gentleman and a man of few words.  It is my hope that President Kibaki’s funeral service will not be a platform for the big boys to continue with their political fights, but to unite the country.  The political differences that have been playing publicly for the last few months as the country heads to the general election are not healthy for the country.  Kibaki was a man of peace. That is why he and Raila Odinga decided to put aside their political differences in 2008 and united the country through their handshake which gave birth to the grand coalition government. Uhuru his deputy Ruto were part of the grand coalition government. I believe a good number of leaders attending Kibaki’s funeral service worked with him in his government.  We have lost a visionary leader whose legacy can be continued if only our leaders remain united for the greater good of this country.   ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi eulogised Kibaki as a politician who stood firm and had a strong political quest of transforming the country’s economy during his tenure. My humble appeal to our politicians is to always put the interest of this country first because that is the only way we will develop. Politics of division and talking at each other can only divide the country further.  Kenyan politicians need to follow the footsteps of president Kibaki who never responded to any political attacks  directed at him. Instead, he chose to respond with actions - development - which really annoyed his political opponents.  The president’s actions remind me of Christina Shusho’s gospel song “Tenda wema nenda zako.” That is what our late president did while in office.  Statements like “Ni bure kabisa na anahitaji kutupiliwa mbali,” and “ukweli ni kwamba hakuna haja,” would never miss the late president’s speeches anytime he stood to address rogue politicians who were out to delay his development agenda.  In the words of Kibaki, I dare say this “ukweli ni kwamba hakuna haja,” to divide Kenyans, talk at each other and go the extreme end of even abusing mothers of political leaders in the name of gaining political mileage.  To the late Mwai kibaki, we are grateful for the good infrastructural projects that you gave us during your tenure and the ones you left for the Jubilee administration to complete like the Standard Gauge Railway, the free primary education which has enabled so many children to have access to education. This country is indeed indebted to you.  To my fellow Kenyans as we lay president Kibaki to rest on Saturday, it is my prayer and hope that we guard peace, love and unity that the late president stood for. To the political class, you have a bigger role to play in ensuring that this country remains united.  Ms Czeda is a KTN news-anchor-cum reporter.     By Oscar Ochieng | 4 hours ago By Editorial | 4 hours ago By Rye Barcott | 14 hours ago By Mwangi Ngamate | 20 hours ago