President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party has hit back at Deputy President William Ruto over remarks about the fuel crisis.  The party said that instead of Ruto criticising the same government to which he should be serving, he should resign and lead the opposition in that role.  On Monday, consumers were caught between arrogant government officials and belligerent Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) who were locked in a stand-off that threatened to bring Kenya’s economy to its knees.    Oil marketers were demanding to be paid arrears, which they put at Sh32 billion, fearing that if they continued selling their fuel at a loss, their operations would collapse. Earlier, energy sector officials had insisted that they owed the marketers between Sh13 and Sh15 billion before the President eventually approved payment of the Sh34.4 billion.   As a result, Ruto took a swipe at the government - accusing officials of being insensitive to the plight of millions - and private oil companies which he said had formed a cartel that was holding the State captive.  Ruto questioned the move, arguing that the money set aside earlier to pay the marketers had been diverted.  “Can the Treasury confirm or deny that the diversion of funds has been used in debt servicing and infrastructure development without the approval of the national assembly?” he asked at a press conference at his official residence in Nairobi.  But in a statement, the Jubilee party said the DP is taking advantage of the plight of Kenyans to earn political mileage while posing as a Messiah.  “In yet another episode of theatrics, Deputy President William Ruto convened a press briefing to read from his book of lamentations. It is sad that despite Mr Ruto being the second in command in the government, he has become a serial complainer instead of offering practical solutions to Kenyans,” read part of a statement signed by Party Secretary-General Jeremiah Kioni.  Kioni said DP Ruto should make a choice to be an ordinary citizen who holds no office or be the second in command, paid by the taxpayers to address challenges facing the country.  He said as the Deputy President, Ruto cannot pretend to pose the questions as Wanjiku would.  “It is not lost to Kenyans that the Deputy President uses not less than Sh50 million every weekend in transport logistics for his campaigns and security, which is already an extra tax burden carried by the taxpayer. During his recent trip abroad, to the US and the UK, Mr Ruto's 131-man cheering squad spent a whooping Sh200 million in logistics, flights, accommodation and allowances. This is enough to provide an emergency food intervention programme in drought-stricken counties,” said Kioni.  He said that while the rising cost of living is being felt across the world given the existing geopolitical issues, President Uhuru Kenyatta earlier today offered practical solutions.  “The President signed into law five parliamentary bills, most importantly the 2022 Supplementary Appropriation Bill (Supplementary Budget), which among other things seeks to ensure fuel stabilisation and address other pressing public needs. Out of this, a total of Sh34 billion is aimed at cushioning Kenyans from high-cost fuel prices occasioned by the global energy crisis. This is what a leader does,” he said.  While asking DP Ruto to offer solutions and not empty rhetoric, Kioni said the measures rolled out by the President came just a few days after the government announced new subsidised prices for fertilizer, which the latter also purported to complain about.  “That Mr Ruto chose to convene a press briefing after the President rolled out the measures raises. more questions than answers. If it was up to Mr Ruto, he would prefer the problems to persist so that he can continue portraying himself as the person who will liberate Kenyans,” he said.  Kioni added, “It is hypocritical for the Deputy President to stand on the staircase of a government house, enjoying government security and staffing only to insult the same government he should be serving. Mr Ruto has two clear choices, occupy his dusty office at Harambee House and help the President dispense his mandate to the people of Kenya, as he constitutionally should, or resign from his position and lead the opposition atop his tax-funded top of the range Land Cruiser.”  By Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 11 hours ago