Azimio la Umoja supporters in the UK have pledged to fund Azimio agents to take up a huge chunk of the August general election expenses through a programme code-named 'Sponsor an Agent Campaign'.  In a meeting held over the weekend to discuss the role of Azimio supporters in the forthcoming elections, the Secretariat resolved to support the elections by footing the bill for thousands of agents who will be appointed to represent the alliance at various polling stations.  A statement by the Raila Odinga Presidential Campaigns Secretariat the UK/ Europe Chapter Chairman Maina Gatangi, said his team is aware of the huge financial costs involved in meeting the costs of agents in polling stations across Kenya thus the offer to chip in and support the national secretariat in meeting those costs.  He said the UK Azimio Secretariat will know the exact number of agents his team will sponsor after they complete the fundraising events planned over the next couple of months.  "When we hosted Baba in London last month, we pledged to support his campaigns in a number of ways. As the general elections draw near we thought this might be a possible cause of concern as agents' payouts take a good chunk of the party resources," Gatangi said. Polling station agents are the people who are appointed by each political party to watch over the counting of votes and to append signatures on behalf of the party before results are announced and transmitted to the national tallying centre.  Ali Ali, the Raila Odinga's Campaigns Chief Executive Officer for the UK's Azimio One Kenya alliance chapter said that Baba’s UK team has always been there during elections and this time it's not going to be any different.  "If Baba has any community he can rely on to deliver then it's the Kenyans living in the UK. We have always supported and fundraised to support Baba's Presidency in all his Presidential bids," he said.  Raila has visited the United Kingdom a number of times in the past both on official and private visits.  During each visit, he has met Kenyans living in the United Kingdom where he has shared his appreciation for the support received from the community at large and pledged to keep up the fight for democracy.  Rose Seko, Secretary-General for Azimio One Kenya UK & Europe said: " We love baba because he means well for Kenya and Kenyans in general. His track record for campaigning for the democracy of our country is unrivalled."  During the Secretariat meeting, Sh200,000 was raised for the 'sponsor an agent campaign'.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 6 hours ago