Deputy President William Ruto shakes hands with The Service Party of Kenya (TSP) leader Mwangi Kiunjuri, flanked by Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula (left) and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi (right) on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, at Ngong Racecourse in Nairobi after signing an agreement.[Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance has admitted eight new political parties after official signing of agreements in Nairobi yesterday.  Kenya Kwanza now has 12 political parties, including Moses Kuria's Chama Cha Kazi, Mwangi Kiunjuri’s The Service Party and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi’s Democratic Party.  On April 9, Mr Muturi signed a coalition agreement with Kenya Kwanza, a move that has generated controversy after a section of DP officials disowned the decision.  The DP officials accused the speaker of going against the wishes of the party, arguing that the decision was not sanctioned by the National Delegates Conference. Undeterred by the grumbling in the party, Dr Ruto yesterday said, "We are proud this morning that we have been joined by the Democratic Party that is associated with transforming the economy of this nation."  The DP welcomed the respective parties into the coalition, saying it is “for the willing and free” and is geared towards working on issues affecting the people. He said none of the new parties had been coerced into joining the outfit.  “Every person who has signed in the documents here has signed so out of free will. They have read the document, they have had time to internalise the document and some have made suggestions to the document,” he said.  The DP said the public signing of the agreements is symbolic to a change of style in doing politics that requires for all signatories to honour their word and signatures.  Dr Ruto attacked Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition, saying it specialises in “intimidation and blackmail” and holds a reputation of going against its word.    He criticised the friction within Azimio, which he said is occasioned by lack of trust and integrity.  Wiper and UDP on Monday wrote an objection letter to the Registrar of Political Parties over what they said was a breach of the coalition agreement.  According to the letter, the original agreement contained only three clauses – relating to Jubilee, ODM and One Kenya Alliance (OKA). However, the amended agreement has four.  “You cannot blindfold people into an agreement they have not read and understood. If your signature means nothing, if your word means nothing, you do not deserve any leadership position,” said Dr Ruto.  “Right now, what we are seeing somewhere else is that there is a resurrection of that trust deficit,” said Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi.  Mr Mudavadi was referring to disagreements that led ANC, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula to exit the defunct National Super Alliance (Nasa) over the sharing of the political parties fund.  Affirming his agenda to transform the country and uplift the lives of Kenyans, Dr Ruto asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to act fast and save Kenyans from the fuel crisis and the unbearable rise in the cost of living.  “We appreciate that all of government has been mobilised to run the Azimio project but surely, it cannot be at the expense of Sh50 million Kenyans. I request my friend, his excellency the president, surely, we cannot wait for the next government to sort out the fuel levy crisis,” said the DP.  Dr Ruto said it is inhuman for the government to witness Kenyans queuing for fuel and others being coerced to line up for Sim card registration at a time they are burdened with the pressures of making ends meet.  “Kenyans are queuing everywhere. It is not necessary for them to queue to register for Sim cards. We have enough time. That registration can wait,” he said.  The DP further said if the process of Sim card registration sanctioned by the Communication Authority of Kenya has an ulterior motive, “they will fail and they will fail miserably”.  The expansion of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance is a tangible boost to Dr Ruto in his quest for the presidency even as UDA nominations are slated to take place tomorrow.  There was a light moment when Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru mistakenly assigned Dr Ruto the combined roles of being the DP, UDA party leader as well as the leader of Azimio group.  "Your excellency, the Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya, and the party leader of UDA and the leader of Azimio group. Sorry, oh my goodness!" exclaimed Ms Waiguru on realising her mistake.  Her attempts to remedy the situation did not straighten matters for she referred to Azimio as an alliance.  By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi and Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 9 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 9 hours ago