Following the death of Kenya’s third President Mwai Kibaki, several leaders have eulogised the economist who died aged 90.  President Uhuru Kenyatta announced Kibaki’s death in a televised address on Friday, April 22.  Deputy President William Ruto, who was on the campaign trail in Kakamega County on Friday, condoled with Kibaki’s family, saying: “We have lost a great son of our country and a great leader. He has laid a solid foundation upon which the rest of us, leaders, today are building on. To his family and to the people of Kenya, tunasema pole sana.”  ODM leader Raila Odinga, in a press conference at the KICC in Nairobi, said: “Mwai Kibaki was one of the freedom fighters of our country. He served this country for many years with diligence, fortitude, honesty and transparency. Nobody was better than Mwai Kibaki when it came to team-spirit and inspiring his ministers.”  Amani National Congress Party leader Musalia Mudavadi, who was also on the campaign trail with Ruto in Kakamega, said: “Kibaki was a politician who stood very firm and laid the foundation for the economic fruits that Kenya is experiencing today, and indeed a politician whom Kenyans voted for overwhelmingly against all odds in 2002. Kenya has lost an illustrious son, a great economist who contributed to Pan-Africanism, who stood out and worked to lay our blueprint today.” KANU National Chairman Gideon Moi, who is also the Baringo Senator, said in a statement: “President Kibaki will be remembered for steering the country into economic prosperity during his tenure 2003-2013. His focused style of leadership continues to be reference point on how to steer a country towards recovery path. His politics too was gentlemanly devoid of sideshows that usually characterise our political arena. The country has lost a worthy leader and a brilliant economist.”  Former Justice and Constitutional Affairs Minister in Kibaki’s Government and Narc-Kenya Party leader Martha Karua said: “My condolences to the family and friends of the late President Mwai Kibaki. His enormous contribution to nation-building before and during his presidency will forever be remembered. Our prayers are with his family.”  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i said in a statement: “I will remember Mzee Kibaki for his unique and admirable style of leadership that singularly focused on the effective management of the affairs of our great nation. The retired President was a sober and reflective statesman who eschewed flippancy in public service. His legendary intolerance for political pettiness and side-shows in favour of national development priorities will remain an entrenched legacy worth of admiration and emulation.”  Former State House Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita eulogized him saying: “In my mind, Kibaki leaves an indelible mark as a steadfast and visionary national leader who provided much-needed support for the formulation of an enabling environment; to guide the growth of the local mobile telephony market. He provided immense support that allowed the adoption and transition of technologies that enable us to enjoy an almost 99% mobile coverage in Kenya today. Through the National Economic and Social Council (NESC), Kibaki provided a foundation for the private sector engagement that we currently enjoy and continue to enhance through the latterday President's Delivery Unit (PDU).  President Uhuru Kenyatta while announcing the death of his predecessor ordered flags to be flown at half-mast from today (April 22, 2022) until the burial of Mwai Kibaki. He also said the ex-President will be accorded State Funeral.  Following the announcement, President Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, CJ Martha Koome, House Speakers (Kenneth Lusaka and Justin Muturi) and Diplomats won’t fly Kenya’s flag on motorcades from today until Mwai Kibaki’s burial.  By Nderitu Gichure | 2 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 2 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 2 hours ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago