Deputy President William Ruto led the Kenya Kwanza leaders in mocking the National Cohesion and Integration Commission for banning words perceived to promote hate speech.  Addressing the faithful in Muongoiya ACK Church in Kiambaa, Kiambu, yesterday, Dr Ruto said there are people who have threatened to close some churches na watajua hawajui.  Speaking at Muchatha shopping centre, the defiant Dr Ruto repeatedly mentioned the words hatupangwingwi and watajua hawajui. He asked the commission not to weaponise the words. NCIC banned the words it said amounted to hate speech.     "NCIC has become another institution being used against the hustler nation," he said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro told off the commission over the ban on some words and dared the agency to send police to arrest them.  "Sisi hatupangwingwi na watajua hawajui. The commission is now a laughing stock and won't go far with these directives," Mr Nyoro said.  Meanwhile, the MP blamed President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga for the rising prices of food and petrol. The DP urged residents to ensure peaceful elections.  "All Kenyans need peace during this electioneering period and we shall ensure it. We will commit ourselves to push for calm," the lawmaker said.  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo said President Kenyatta deserves respect and he should retire peacefully.  Mr Kabogo reiterated that those saying the President does not have anyone to succeed him in Mount Kenya are wrong. The former governor said he has all it takes to succeed the President as the Mt Kenya kingpin.  He is contesting for the Kiambu governor seat on a Tujibebe party ticket.  The DP was accompanied by MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Thika's Patrick Wainaina, Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), John Njuguna of Kiambaa, Kiambu Women Rep aspirants Ann Wamuratha and Loise Kim, Kiambu Assembly Speaker Stephen Ndichu and Kiambu Senate aspirant Karungo Thang'wa.   By Standard Team | 6 hours ago By James Omoro | 11 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 13 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 13 hours ago