Rival youths in a scuffle after clashing at Bondo polling center in Homa Bay County during ODM nominations on April 14, 2022. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  Alarmed by the prospects of massive fallouts from the nomination exercise in his Nyanza backyard, Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition presidential hopeful Raila Odinga’s troops have gone back to the drawing board to plan how to keep the region’s votes intact.  Raila’s lieutenants, who are tasked with delivering the presidential vote as well as votes for ODM aspirants, are burning the midnight oil as they strategise on how to approach campaigns post-nominations.  This comes even as a wave of anxiety and mistrust continue to sweep through the region as the party chooses candidates aspirants to fly its colours in various seats.  Claims of favouritism following issuance of direct tickets to some aspirants have rocked the region and threaten to have a ripple effect on the presidential vote. There are fears that the controversial party primaries that has seen some aspirants bag direct tickets could lead to voter apathy and also divide Raila’s votes in the region.  Yesterday, a group of party members from Bondo demanded a repeat of the nomination exercise, which they claimed had been marred by massive irregularities.    The group claimed that some aspirants did not even cast their votes because of failure of electronic voting gadgets, which they attributed to sabotage.  Omoso Adiema, an elder from Nyangoma village, took issue with the manner ODM treated most of its loyalists, adding they would pressure the party to repeat the exercise.  “We are waiting to see how the party is going to handle the issues that have come up during the party primaries. We cannot accept to be treated like that,” he told journalists.  A number of disgruntled ODM aspirants have threatened to rally their supporters to frustrate Raila’s party in the August polls.  Raila’s team, however, says they are not sweeping the threats under the carpet and that they are working on a comprehensive plan to stem out any revolt. Fighting voter apathy is at the heart of the work Raila has tasked his team to undertake.  The Sunday Standard has established that Raila’s campaign team under the Azimio la Umoja secretariat has developed a comprehensive plan to address discontent arising from the nominations in Nyanza and Western.  The team is led by Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya. It also comprises of other governors and members of the clergy.  Rasanga confirmed to The Sunday Standard that they are working on a comprehensive campaign plan that will come into effect after the party primaries.  The aim of the plan is to stem out any potential fallout and keep everyone in Raila’s camp, including those who will miss out on the coveted party ticket.  According to Rasanga, the strategy will be solidified during a one-day workshop bringing together all leaders from Nyanza and Western Kenya to be held immediately after nominations.  “The secretariat has drafted a work plan that runs up to September, after the General Election. The plan will provide a roadmap for the presidential campaigns for Nyanza region,” said the Siaya Governor.  Rasanga said the meeting will take place once they identify all the aspirants who will run for various seats in the region and will be centered on ensuring that Raila and his troops clinch the seats.  Yesterday, Raila’s presidential campaign team in Nyanza met in Kisumu to look at how best to approach campaigns after the nominations and address issues that might arise.  The team included Rasanga, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong as well as representatives of six other governors from the region.  According to Rasanga, all the counties in the region have been accorded two slots in the campaign secretariat and will be charged with identifying issues that need urgent remedy to solidify support for Raila.  The Sunday Standard has also established that Raila’s lieutenants have also reached out to other leaders from the region who left the party to contest in other parties and as independents.  Questions, however, remain if their efforts will bear fruit as ODM members continue to raise concerns over the nomination exercise which they claim is not free and fair.  The ODM chief is rallying his support base to mobilise potential voters to enlist in their numbers as voters to give him the much-needed boost in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The Sunday Standard established that all ODM leaders have been tasked with ensuring that voter confidence remains high and rally against voter apathy which could affect Raila’s quest for the presidency.  The leaders also have an onus to ensure that they keep away other parties from undermining ODM’s strength in Nyanza. Raila’s opponents, including Deputy President William Ruto, have been attempting to make inroads in Nyanza through UDA.  The clergy too have also been incorporated to solve any disputes and also rally their flock to turn up during the August 9 polls to cast their votes.  A massive voter turnout in the region is tipped to be a major game changer for Raila’s State House bid. In the past, Raila’s presidential quests have been frustrated by voter apathy.  By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 6 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 6 hours ago