Violence erupted at the Homa Bay High School tallying centre during the tallying process on April 14, 2022. [James Omoro, Standard]  Losers in ODM nominations in Siaya and Homa Bay counties have disputed results the results saying the exercise was flawed and should be repeated.  The outcry came as the party prepared to hold its primaries in Migori today before proceeding to other counties in Nyanza.  Aspirants who lost in the primaries in Siaya appealed to the party's Dispute Resolution Tribunal to nullify the results.  Dr Nicholas Kut who vied for Alego Usonga parliamentary seat and Dr Jalang'o Midiwo who vied for Gem seat said they had filed their petitions seeking nullification of the results. They both contested against sitting MPs and claimed that the process was flawed.  “There was massive violence before, during and after the announcement of the results. Therefore, we must say it is not fair as this left some of our supporters in hospital and we have indicated all these in our petitions,” said Kut.  “In Karapul Primary School polling station, my supporters experienced violence and due to that some of them had to flee without voting. There was also massive bribery during voting day. We have evidence that my opponent distributed money on that day.”  Kut also said that they had reported to the tribunal that various voting kits were manipulated, some were disabled and in areas where he had strong support, only one kit was supplied. This, he argued, had disenfranchised his supporters.  In Gem, Midiwo cited in his petition an incident where the police arrested over 15 people and confiscated an assortment of weapons on Wednesday.  He claimed that a former councilor Emmanuel Ominde was attacked at Yala Township Primary School and had to be rushed to hospital for treatment.  “Ominde is just one of my agents who was beaten up. He didn't provoke his attackers. His greatest fault was being my supporter who was simply representing my interest at the station," Midiwo said  Distanced himself  He said his agents in Dienya, Karuwa and Kagilo polling stations were beaten up by people sponsored by his opponents.  Siaya County police commander Michael Muchiri said investigations had been launched over the reports made by Midiwo.  Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo distanced himself from the allegations made by Midiwo and said that the nominations were peaceful.  “I urge my brother Midiwo to join me in the journey to building this constituency. The primaries are now over and I won fairly. I hope he can accept defeat and avoid filing petitions for the sake of Gem residents," Odhiambo said.  Ward aspirants for South East and North Alego Joseph Mboha and Rosemary Ogutu, respectively have also filed petitions with the party tribunal.  In Homa Bay, a number of aspirants and voters are up in arms with the party's National Elections Board (NEB) over the results they termed “wrong”.  Moline Ngala who contested for Woman Rep position accused the election officials of giving Homa Bay voters doctored results on Friday.  Ngala argued that the results which were announced were predetermined. “The returning officer did not announce results of ODM members who voted. Those results were cooked,” she said.  In Ndhiwa Constituency, parliamentary aspirant Michael Agwanda told ODM NEB to repeat the nominations. He argued that the results were prepared three days before the primaries on Thursday.   “There is a list of predetermined ODM nomination results that was circulated on social media platforms about four days prior the election," Agwanda said. "We are dismayed that more than 95 per of results in the list are true in line with the election results.”  He warned that there would be voter apathy if the anomaly is not rectified.  Agwanda came second in the election with 2,233 votes after Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino who was announced the winner with 5,196 votes.  Disrupted by violence  MCA aspirants Roslyn Oyoko and Thomas Owino said they lost the election because of election offences.  Oyoko said the election results in her ward were announced from a few polling stations after voting was disrupted by violence.  “My chief agent sustained injuries when she was attacked by supporters of my opponent. Voting also did not take place in many polling centres after some people snatched the voting tablets,” said Oyoko.  Those who received direct ODM tickets in Homa Bay include Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul), Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul), Lilian Gogo (Rangwe) and Millie Odhiambo (Suba North).  Raila Odinga’s former aide, Caroli Omondi, was also given a direct ticket to vie for Suba South despite protests from his opponents over his membership and loyalty to the party.  In Kisumu, governor aspirant Ken Obura wants ODM's NEB to name him as the party’s flag-bearer for the seat. Obura claimed the scientific polls conducted by the party put him ahead of the incumbent Anyang Nyong’o.  This comes as NEB chair Mumma said there will be no universal suffrage nomination for Kisumu's governor's seat.  Mumma said only Woman Representative, senate, Kisumu East, Muhoroni, Nyakach, Kisumu Central parliamentary and MCA positions will be contested in Kisumu County during the primaries.  Obura yesterday said that together with his team that includes former Kisumu Speaker Onyango Oloo, former governor Jack Ranguma and Senator Fred Outa, they will only agree to a consensus that gives him the ODM ticket.  “I want to make this clear. The consensus will only work if I am the candidate. They are peddling a lot of lies that there is consensus between us. We are still waiting because the party is yet to communicate to us as to whether I am the candidate."  “Obviously with the route the party took of going the scientific way through the polls, I am the popular candidate but should that not be the case, I want to assure our supporters that in the very unlikely event that the party chooses Nyong’o over me, we shall have a candidate during the August election.”   newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke        By Olivia Odhiambo | 6 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 2 days ago By Caleb Kingwara | 2 days ago By Sharon Owino | 2 days ago