Green Congress Party of Kenya has led the chorus calling out the bigger parties within the Azimio for disrespecting and, treating with contempt, the so-called small parties within the coalition.  They have targeted Raila Odinga's Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Jubilee led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Wiper of Kalonzo Musyoka as the coalition's constituent parties treating the others as though they are lesser or count for nothing in Odinga's quest for the presidency.  GCK Party chairman, Hillary Alila, speaking when he handed over nomination certificates for dozens of aspirants seeking various positions across the country in the August 9, 20022 General Elections, accused the named parties for treating their coalition partners as "though they were children of a lesser God.”  "We are in Azimio because we believe in the collective philosophy that the Right Honourable Raila Odinga is the best Kenyan to become our fifth President, but the likes of ODM and Jubilee are behaving as if we are not partners in the (Azimio) Coalition," Alila insisted.  "We want to tell them that, just like everyone else, the parties they are calling small are also traversing the country campaigning for PM Raila Odinga." Alila chastised the Orange party for mistreating the other parties, carrying the demeanour of owning the Azimio presidential candidate.  GCK is one of the nearly 30 political parties forming the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition political party.  "Yes PM (Raila) Odinga is the Party Leader of the ODM and everyone respects that but there needs to be a measure of both respect and appreciation that all of us have a stake in this coalition political party by right.  "The way ODM are behaving is not right and we are here to tell them that Raila is our presidential candidate as he is for the majority of Kenyans."  GCK sentiments come amidst growing disquiet among the Azimio constituent parties, with a section of them accusing others of feeling more entitled than others.  Odinga cut short his trip to the USA and is expected to return to the country to participate in the final ceremonies in honour of Kenya's third President Mwai Kibaki whose burial is set for Saturday at his Othaya home in Nyeri County.  Odinga, whose candidature for presidency will be his fifth attempt has the backing of outgoing President Uhuru Kenyatta, has been silent even as the smaller parties agitate to be told what their place in the coalition is but he may be forced to ease the growing tensions with the Azimio outfit.  Meanwhile, GCK Party Leader Martin Ogindo has emphasized their party will do everything to ensure it complies with the two-thirds gender requirement in their nomination lists as directed by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  IEBC, in a letter to political parties, has warned that political parties which fail to satisfy the gender parity requirement of the law will be disqualified from fielding candidates in the August 9, 2022 General Elections.  "We are aware of the directive from IEBC and as a party we are working towards ensuring that not more than two thirds of our nominees for various seats are of the same gender," explained Ogindo, who is seeking a return to the Rangwe parliamentary seat on the party's ticket.  "The leadership and secretariat were already working on this and GCK will be compliant with the constitution and all other applicable laws of the land."  IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati says the parties will be served a notice to adjust their lists upon being found to have failed to comply with the gender parity rule.  "The Commission will provide the Political Party an opportunity to revise the list and re-submit the revised list to the Commission within 48 hours of receipt of communication from the Commission," said Chebukati.  "Do note that a revised list that does not comply with the two-thirds gender principle, will be rejected in its totality and all candidates on the list cannot stand for Election on August 9th 2022."  By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Ali Abdi | 4 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 4 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 6 hours ago