There was drama at the National Assembly on Tuesday after Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi accused the Deputy President of land grabbing in various parts of the country.  The drama ensued shortly after the female lawmaker linked the DP to a number of land grabbing, adding she was in a position to present documents supporting her sentiments to the house.  “Mr Speaker, it is public domain that one William Samoei Ruto grabbed public land including Lang’ata Primary. I have no apology to make about that. I can provide the details,” Gedi told the house.  The lawmaker claimed that the Kenya Kwanza coalition presidential candidate had been involved in cases of land grabbing in different parts of the country.  “You have a corrupt presidential candidate. (Kwendeni huko)” Gedi shouted, threw his hands in the air and went for her seat. In Ruto’s defence, lawmakers allied to the Kenya Kwanza political formation interjected and asked Gedi to give evidence of her statement.  “Gedi is on record accusing the DP of land grabbing. The best thing for her to do is to provide evidence to support her sentiments or withdraw her statement,” one of the MPs suggested.  Then the speaker posed a question to Gedi “Can you? In response, Gedi said, “Give me two days”.  Then Speaker Muturi said “It is your choice. Ordinarily, we don’t allow the evidence in two days. When you say something you should have material to support it immediately or withdraw. I will allow you to bring the material on Thursday at 2:30 pm because of the weight of the allegations. We allow her time to provide material for all the land she has mentioned,”.  Then Gedi responded, ‘I will bring evidence for Langata primary, Taita Taveta, Laikipia and 100 acres of the late Muteshi land in Transnzoia,”    Gedi is expected to table evidence of his allegations to the floor of the house on Thursday, April 14.     By Peterson Githaiga | 2 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi and Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By Victor Nzuma | 9 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 9 hours ago