Acting Petroleum Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma addressing journalists at Kawi Complex, Nairobi on April 14, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Acting Petroleum Cabinet Secretary (CS) Monica Juma says four petrol stations in Migori County will be punished for selling fuel above the legal retail prices.  The maximum recommended price for a litre of Petrol in Migori Town is Sh146.7. Diesel goes for Sh127.87 and Kerosene Sh115.84.  The four offending stations are located in Kehancha, Awendo and Migori Town.  In Kehancha, the maximum price for a litre of Petrol is Sh147.08; Diesel (Sh128.25) and Kerosene (Sh116.21). The CS said in a press statement dated April 19 that normalcy in the fuel sector had resumed, with the long queues at petrol stations no longer commonplace.  Juma, who is also the substantive Energy CS, said as of April 18, Kenya had 52.9 million litres of petrol and 82.2 million litres of diesel, which was enough to serve users countrywide.  “By yesterday (April 18, 2022), the [Petroleum] ministry can confirm that majority of petroleum retail stations across the country were carrying out business as normal. The long queues witnessed in the past two weeks were gone,” she said in the statement.  During Easter season alone, a total of 10.6 million litres of Petrol and 13.3 million litres of Diesel were sold to motorists, said Juma.  The minister further stated that the senior managers of the oil marketing companies that were spotlighted for hoarding fuel are still under probe by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI).  The Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) has begun the process of discharging 120 million litres of Petrol and 212 million litres of Diesel meant for the local market, said CS Juma.  A spot-check by The Standard shows that many petrol stations across the country have reopened for business.  In Nairobi, the stations have been attending to normal customer numbers, which is a major contrast to a few days ago when long vehicular queues would be witnessed at the few petrol stations that had stocked fuel.  By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 1 hour ago By Jacinta Mutura | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago