Governor Mwangi wa Iria (right) during the launch of Wachuuzi Sacco at Mumbi Grounds in Murang'a on January 27, 2022. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has warned leaders against disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta and fellow Mt Kenya politicians.  He spoke at Mumbi Grounds in Murang’a town on Thursday at the launch of a Sh1 billion Wachuuzi Sacco loan package for small-scale traders and farmers. The governor said all leaders and presidential aspirants deserve respect.  The governor told off leaders disrespecting the President. “Give the President the respect he deserves as the head of state and stop mudslinging during campaign rallies. Uhuru’s administration has built roads across the country and revived the railway lines,” he said.  Iria, who is eyeing the presidency through his Usawa Kwa Wote party, said it is hypocritical for some politicians to incite Mt Kenya residents against President Uhuru and other leaders from the region.   “The narrative of insults propagated by the politicians is meant to ridicule and demean the Gema community, which has eight million votes, enough to push someone to victory in the race to State House,” said Iria.  He said if elected, he will be at the forefront to unite and protect the Mt Kenya people. Iria said he will not allow other leaders to turn the region into a political battlefield for personal interest.  “Other presidential candidates like Raila Odinga (ODM) and Deputy President William Ruto (UDA) have marked their territories in their home turf. We shall also do the same with the Mt Kenya region,” the governor said.   He, however, said all candidates are welcome to the Mt Kenya region to sell their agenda but not play divisive politics.  “I have officially started my campaigns and will go all over the country to sell my agenda,” he said.  Iria added that he was the Mt Kenya candidate with blessings from the region. He cautioned voters against being lied to that there was no preferred candidate from the region.  “Usawa Kwa Wote party and other parties from the region will work with like-minded leaders who have Kenyans’ interests at heart and not personal ambition. I will be walking this journey with those who are willing,” he said.  By Stephen Rutto | 9 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 11 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 2 days ago