DP William Ruto challenged voters to choose a president based on track record, especially if they had served in past governments. [Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto embarked on a vote hunt in Trans Nzoia County yesterday, where he expressed confidence that he was headed for victory in the August elections.  He also vowed to protect his victory.  “There is propaganda that my victory will be snatched from me by the Deep State. Do you see me as someone who will let my win be snatched away? There is no Deep State,” he said at Kachibora market in Cherangany sub-county.   Ruto, who campaigned for his United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party, said his priority will be to transform the country’s economy and uplift the living standards of Kenyans.  He reiterated that ODM leader Raila Odinga was a State project being pushed by wealthy individuals out to protect their interests at the expense of poor Kenyans.  “A few wealthy individuals sat at a hotel in Nairobi to decide for Kenyans who will be their president. Kenyans will not allow selfish individuals to decide on their destiny, especially the presidency,” said Ruto.  “Kenyans are against these political endorsements because it serves the interest of a few people. Kenyans should be allowed to vote for their preferred leaders.”  He urged Kenyans to elect the next president based on their track record and not political rhetoric.  According to the DP, his competitors served in government but had a poor track record. He said Raila served as Prime Minister while Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi held vice president positions and must show their track records.  “The presidential contest is all about experience and ability to transform the county,” the DP said.  He said the Jubilee government had tarmacked roads, connected millions of Kenyans to electricity, among other development projects.  He vowed to revive the Big Four agenda by fast-tracking full implementation of its key pillars of development like food security, affordable housing, universal healthcare and manufacturing if elected.  He told residents his government will inject Sh100 billion into agro-processing and manufacturing.  “Our major problem is unemployment, and my government will inject more money in the agro-processing and manufacturing sector to create jobs for the youth,” he said.  “My competitors have prioritised changing the Constitution to create posts to suit their interest and are not interested in economic revivals,” he added.  The DP was last evening expected to address rallies in Kesogon, Endebess, Kimondo, Kitalelale, Waitaluk and Sikhendu.  By Stephen Rutto | 1 hour ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 hours ago By Philip Mwakio and RENSON MNYAMWEZI | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and John Shilitsa | 5 hours ago List of high-end properties that former Attorney-General Charles Njonjo owned