Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Ferrying youth from one region to another and bribery by politicians are the main causes of chaos in political rallies, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said.  Speaking at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Nairobi, yesterday, Dr Matiang’i said his ministry would deploy more police officers across the country during the campaign period.    The CS said intelligence has indicated that chaos is sparked by “endemic false promises” and handouts which sow discord among the public. “What is frustrating is the behaviour of some of our politicians. We have not received any complaints about wananchi ganging up until of course they are mobilised and bribed and told things that never come to pass and then conflicts begin to spiral in that kind of manner,” he said.  Matiang’i further called out UDA politicians for accusing police of intentionally targeting its members and failing to take action.  During a rally at Jacaranda grounds in Embakasi East, Nairobi, UDA accused police of being complicit in the chaos together with ODM.  “There are claims that have been made recently by one political group listing incidents where they claim they have been violated. We don’t have a single report in any of our police stations,” said Matiang’i.  The CS said most of the police deployed to the rally were there to ensure security is maintained.  “Politics and common sense are not mutually exclusive. How can police plan violence against the state? Those who are complaining are members of the Security Council and are guarded by police,” he said.  Matiang’i also asked politicians to respect public servants and cease the verbal attacks.   “Attacking public officers who do not have a platform to defend themselves is both immoral, irresponsible and reckless on the part of political leaders,” he said.         By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 6 hours ago By Dennis Kabaara | 8 hours ago