Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko and Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa enjoy a jig at Sipala Secondary School in Webuye East on January 5, 2022. [Nathan Ochunge, Standard]  Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa has urged politicians to shun hate speech.  Speaking at Malava in Kakamega North on Sunday, the CS condemned utterances by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi during a rally organised by Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Eldoret on Saturday.  According to Mr Wamalwa, the senator’s utterances reminded Kenyans of post-election violence in 2008.   Wamalwa spoke at a Malava hotel as he received defectors from different parties to the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP -K). “As correctly put by the late president Daniel Moi, ‘siasa mbaya maisha mbaya’. Leaders should desist from incitement and divisive politics but preach peaceful coexistence wherever they are.”  The CS added: “Such utterances must be discouraged and action taken against individuals sowing seeds of discord because we remember reckless utterances caused violence, loss of lives and displacement.”   Wamalwa commended police for arresting Linturi. “This serves as a lesson to leaders who don’t think before they speak. We are moving around counties preaching peace and unity. There should be no room for reckless talk and divisive politics,” he said.  He cautioned Kenyans against following politicians giving handouts, yet they are out to divide the electorate along tribal lines. “We have embarked on the journey of national unity and building one indivisible nation that will speak for one nation, one people and one Kenya,” he said.  He drummed up support for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja movement, which he said would unite the country. According to Wamalwa, DAP-K entered will work with Azimio la Umoja to empower Kenyans. “We must ask ourselves in whose hands we are safe. Azimio is the way to go because our former Prime Minister fought for devolution and we can only liken him to Mandela,” he said.  Wamalwa said Raila would prioritise devolution, BBI and expansion of constituencies. “Kakamega and Bungoma are among the five big counties in Kenya and would require more constituencies.”  He urged ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi to make his political stand known to avoid misleading the community and the people of Western.   By Brian Kisanji | 45 minutes ago By Omelo Juliet | 23 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 day ago By Osinde Obare | 1 day ago