The Mukuru kwa Njenga evictions have led to the displacement of thousands of people. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has stopped the eviction of the Mukuru kwa Njenga residents, and instead ordered for their resettlement into the disputed parcel of land, two months after their houses were demolished.  In a message delivered to the residents by Interior Cabinet Secretary (CS) Dr. Fred Matiang’i, the president called for the relevant authorities to enter into negotiations with a company and private individuals, who are claiming the land.  He says that those displaced in the area will be resettled in the next 30 days, with a priority given to those who are currently sheltering in makeshift tents.  A section of the slum was demolished to pave way for the construction of the 30-metre wide Catherine Ndereba road, which is expected to link the Nairobi Expressway to Industrial Area. The demolitions, however, ended up affecting an area bigger than the road reserve.  Amnesty International estimates the number of households affected by the demolitions to be 13,000, which directly affects over 40,000 people.  Matiang’i, while addressing the residents, said that the planned upgrading of roads and other infrastructural projects in the slum will go on as planned, but the government was going to hold a consultative meeting with the residents.  “We want everyone who is currently displaced to go back immediately. The instructions are that we immediately cease every activity in Mukuru kwa Njenga until everyone has been resettled,” the CS said.  Matiang’i criticised the Christmas Day evictions as “insensitive and unnecessary, saying they had been executed by rogue officials, who had already been disciplined for the aberrations.  On December 28, police clashed with the residents after the locals blocked an attempt by surveyors to demarcate the disputed land.  The resultant chaos led to the shooting of more than three people, according to Human Rights groups in the area. One person died from gunshot wounds at the Cana Health Centre.  The demarcation attempts came despite a court order blocking the government from engaging in any on the disputed land until petition challenging the evictions is determined.  “We respect court orders, but we will implement them in a framework that also respects the interests of the people we serve. We have called some of our officers to account,” Matiang’i said.  Lands CS Faridah Karoney, who also attended the meeting, said that there will be an audit of the title deeds held by the residents to regularise land tenure and informal property holdings in the slum.  She said that only surveyors from the Ministry of Lands will be involved in demarcation of the land to avoid conflict of interest and interference by cartels.  Nairobi Metropolitan Services Director-General Lt. Gen Mohammed Badi and Inspector-General of Police Hilary Mutyambai were also in attendance.  By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 day ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 day ago By Jacinta Mutura | 1 day ago Chief of staff: Why public and private offices opt for the post