Gusii politicians during the first Azimio la Umoja rally. [Eric Abuga, Standard]  Leaders allied to Jubilee, ODM, KNC and other fringe parties have launched joint campaigns under the banner of Azimio la Umoja in Gusii region.  At a rally at the Kisii Agricultural Training grounds on Monday, the leaders said their aim was to rally behind ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  Governor James Ongwae, Senator Sam Ongeri, Woman Rep Janet Ongera, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (all elected on ODM tickets), Chief Administrative Secretary Chris Obure, Kenya National Congress (KNC) party leader Manson Nyamweya and Bomachoge Chache MP Zadock Ogutu (Independent) attended the launch. The group also boasts of more than 55 MCAs in Jubilee and ODM supporting the former premier’s bid.  The meeting had the blessings of the Gusii Council of Elders who endorsed Mr Raila’s presidential bid.  Council Chairman Araka Matundura said his team met elders from other communities and agreed to support Raila’s bid.  “We are all in agreement that we will support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda to unite the country. All council of elders have agreed to support this noble course,” he said.    Prof Ongeri said despite their political ambitions they had agreed to support Raila’a bid as a community.  “I have accepted and advised that we must remain united as a community and offer total support to our party leader. Those going against our wishes will not make it to the ballot. Our leaders have set a good example and it is time we set our agenda straight on who to support.”  According to Ongeri, President Uhuru Kenyatta had set the country on the right path. “We don’t want to have any infighting; it is our desire that whoever will be elected to represent the people of Kisii represents the aspirations of the Azimio la Umoja coalition,” he said.  Governor Ongwae said Nyanza region has never been in power. “I am in the 10-member campaign team and I can assure the community and the country that we are doing our best.”  He added: “Nyanza has held together for years; we have stayed together in a bid to foster harmony. Raila has fought for all the good things that have happened in Kenya. It is time for Nyanza to lead the country.”  Ongwae said he has been in power for 10 years calling on all those seeking to succeed him to go slow on the campaigns. “We don’t need to fight or abuse each other; only one person can hold such a seat at any given time.”  Ongeri who is also seeking to succeed the governor said he had the experience to lead the county.  Maangi who recently decamped from UDA said Nyanza region has never had the opportunity to lead the country since 1963.  “This is our time; we will unite across Nyanza region and ensure that we deliver majority votes for Raila. Let us take advantage of the ongoing mass voter registration and get people to enlist.”  Obure called on the community to support Raila’s bid.  Ongera said the community has to register more than 160,000 new voters.  “We must end local political wars and come together to support Azimio la Moja. We can only have one governor at a time; we cannot afford to be fighting all the time.”     By Eric Abuga | 6 hours ago By Lynet Otieno | 14 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 14 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 15 hours ago