ODM leader Raila Odinga’s wife Ida (pictured) issued a public apology two days after she called for the regulation of churches.  Her comments, she revealed, did not go down well with some of the church leaders. There is no doubt that such comments were bound to rub some people the wrong way and possibly boomerang on her husband who is in the race for the presidency and needs to gather every vote - from believers and non-believers alike - in his basket. But we should never shy away from the truth—Ida hit the nail on the head. We have a problem indeed.  While freedom of worship is enshrined in our Constitution, some of the so-called religious leaders have abused that freedom and misled their flock in the name of God.  For the record, majority of churches are upright and are run professionally. However, there is no secret that some preachers take advantage of their desperate and undiscerning followers. For such, ‘men and women of God’, everything - including prayers - costs money and there is no disease without a miraculous cure. Some of them have been caught on tape offering fake miracles for pay. Some have even led members of their congregations to early graves by lying to them that they had been healed after praying for them and convincing them to stop taking life-saving medicines, such as HIV anti-retrovirals. Others have been found guilty of fraudulently acquiring money and property from church-goers.  There is nothing Godly in such acts. If anything, these are signs of religious leaders gone rogue. Which is not shocking because the Bible warns about them; “Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves” (Matthew 7:16).  Ida said nothing outrageous. It would be foolhardy to bury our heads in the sand in the face of such transgressions. Wayward preachers need prayers. But it will take more than prayers to bring back order. The government and upright religious leaders should put their heads together and find a solution.  By Editorial | 5 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 4 days ago