Police are seeking to detain Meru senator Mithika Linturi to conclude investigations over the alleged incitement remarks he made during Deputy President William Ruto’s rally in Eldoret on Saturday.  The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) filed an application pending before the court seeking to hold Mr Linturi for seven days at the Kaptembwo Police Station in Nakuru.  Linturi was arrested on Sunday morning in Eldoret and driven to Nakuru County before he was taken to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) offices in Nairobi.  He was later returned to Kaptembwo Police Station where he spent the night.   The miscellaneous application dated January 10, 2022, filed by a police officer and an investigator seconded to the commission, seeks to have Linturi detained at the police station to enable them complete investigations on the case of Ethnic contempt contrary to section 62(1) of the NCI Act No. 12 of 2008.  In the State’s application, it is observed that the same word ‘madoadoa’ had been used in the year 2007 to whip emotions which resulted in ethnic clashes within the same region.  The commission further noted that this being a general election year, the utterances made are likely to cause political tension that may result in violence.  Being a weekend, the police argue that the investigating team did not manage to obtain a forensic cyber report from the Communication Authority of Kenya.  Police says they need time to record statements from the witnesses who were present during the said rally and the respondent being a powerful politician may interfere with them if granted cash bail/bond.  The detective further argued that the senator could tamper with the witnesses citing case number E007/2021 before Milimani Law Courts.  It is alleged that Linturi tried to bribe the complainant and the witnesses by giving them a lump sum cash Sh200,000 and a cheque of Sh800,000 respectively so as to drop a charge of attempted rape contrary to section 4 of the Sexual Offences Act.  Linturi is expected to appear before court virtually when the application will be argued.  jchpkwony@standardmedia.co.ke      By Irissheel Shanzu | 10 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 18 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Obare Osinde | 1 day ago