Raila Odinga was the guest of honour at the Bukhungu II meeting convened by Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga closed 2021 in style when he made a grand entry into Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega at 12.45pm.  Resplendent in an all-white casual attire, Raila waved to the excited crowd as he made a lap of honour before getting to the main dais at the centre of the stadium still under construction.  Accompanying Raila atop the dark Toyota Landcruiser was Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya who is also ODM deputy party leader. Oparanya was clad in a dark grey suit and a blue shirt to match the Azimio La Umoja colour.   Raila was the guest of honour at the Bukhungu II meeting convened by Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli who has been at the forefront of championing Luhya unity.  There was palpable excitement as Raila’s supporters milled around the stadium awaiting his arrival. The main stand at the stadium was filled to capacity.  On the terraces, the dominant colour was orange with a smattering of blue blending into many other colours. At the entrance, traditional dancers entertained attendees who trooped in to witness the events unfold.  Trucks decorated in Azimio La Umoja banners and prominently displaying Raila's picture moved around town playing music and reminding residents to attend the rally. Boda boda riders too rode in town blowing vuvuzelas, attracting the attention of those who might not have been aware of the meeting.  Aspirants eyeing various seats in the forthcoming elections from all the five counties of Western region took advantage to proclaim their candidacy through banners that their followers displayed as they moved around the stadium.  A drone hovered over the main dais, occasionally soaring off only to come back later. It was not clear who operated the drone, but that raised questions over safety of attendees should it be operated by hostile people.  All guest speakers who preceded Raila’s speech were full of praise for him. While declaring their unwavering support, many praised Raila for his liberation struggles and acknowledged that it was because of his sacrifice that Kenyans enjoy most of the freedoms today.  As would have been expected, many took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto through allegories, portraying him as a dishonest person who should not be trusted with the leadership of Kenya.  The highlight was the crowning of Oparanya as the new Luhya spokesman to take over from Musalia Mudavadi who was appointed Luhya spokesman on December 31, 2016 during the Bukhungu I meeting.  At the same time, the Luhya Council of Elders read a resolution, pledging support for Raila for the presidency. The elders also pledged to rally behind all those who will seek posts under the Azimio La Umoja banner.  Lugari MP Ayub Savula denounced the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) as "rubbish" and threw his lot with Azimio La Umoja.  He also renounced his position as Amani National Congress (ANC) deputy party leader while nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi announced he was ditching ANC for ODM. Many MCA aspirants also ditched ANC and Ford-K to join ODM.  By Moses Nyamori | 7 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 7 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 8 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 8 hours ago Key players to watch in Uhuru succession race