National Assembly Justin Muturi. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has launched a scathing attack against Deputy President William Ruto and people he said were busy accusing other politicians of being corrupt.  The Speaker was addressing mourners at Menyenya Primary School in Nyamira County today during the funeral of Borabu MP Ben Momanyi's brother Benson Nyasimi.  Muturi said Ruto stole his political slogan that he is using as the name for his newly founded Kenya Kwanza Alliance.  "If you would walk along Thika Road, you could see my billboard that read 'Kenya Kwanza' but you see, they have taken it too! Sasa wewe unapora hata slogan yangu?" Muturi wondered.   Muturi said some leaders seeking the presidency have questionable track record.  He accused a section of leaders of hypocrisy for claiming some of their competitors are corrupt.  The Speaker noted that a section of leaders seeking to be elected worked together with those they are accusing of being corrupt.  "They call their former counterparts thieves who stole maize while serving in government, they ate public monies, they sold graves... They should also take responsibility of their colleagues because they must have been thieves too! Why didn't they call them thieves when they were together politically?" Muturi posed.  He used the platform to drum up support for his presidential bid and urged the people make wise choices at the ballot.  The Speaker said political parties should shift focus from enriching politicians and instead draw attention to their followers whom he said are mostly poor.  West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi urged Muturi to join Ruto in Kenya Kwanza Alliance.  "It is high time that you now join us in the Kenya Kwanza Alliance and form the next government with Ruto," he said.  West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  Nakuru MP Samuel Arama told politicians to exercise restrain and shun leaders who are hiring goons to disrupt funerals and rallies.  "If you want to be elected, be wise and avoid many controversies like contradicting norms. Avoid controversies in funerals," Mr Arama said.  MPs Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) and Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) urged leaders to avoid confrontational politics and preach peace among Kenyans.  "It doesn't benefit you to abuse any person. Just sell your policies and walk out for people to judge your ability," Mr Mose said.  Mr Nyamoko said peace was crucial as the country heads towards the August 9 elections.  Nyamira Senator Okong'o Mogeni urged youths to register as voters and make their voices heard at the ballot.  "Go register as voters and make sure you vote if you want to get change you need most," he said.  Leaders present were MPs Ken Musyoka (EALA), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Samuel Arama(Nakuru West), youth leader Adams Mochenwa, Nyamira County Assembly Speaker Moffat Teya, Leader of majority Duke Masira and his minority counterpart Denis Kebaso.  By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane and Jane Mugambi | 3 hours ago By George Njunge | 10 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago