DP William Ruto (right) insisted that leaders must learn to keep their word if Kenya is to move forward. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has warned politicians from entering into coalitions with dishonest leaders, not likely to keep their word.  Ruto said the country did not need to pass laws on coalitions to have politicians work together claiming that those pushing for amendments to the Political Parties Act to have a statute on such political arrangements, can be entered through with just honesty.  “I don’t know how we can legislate honesty into law. It is the biggest indictment that their word means nothing. We do not need to pass the law. We will keep our word because we are honourable and we are honest people,” said Ruto.  He asked leaders to desist from working with certain leaders if they are deceitful. “Don’t involve yourself in their arrangement. You come where decent people are, who can do their work without being forced by any constitution or any law right on a domain,” said Ruto Hounded by their past  “It is a shame that some people are being hounded by their past. They should stop the deceit and dishonesty,” he added.  Speaking when he hosted a delegation of grassroots leaders from Lugari and Likuyani constituencies at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu, Ruto pledged to keep his word with any coalition partner that he will get to work with and asked Western region to convince top leaders to work with him.  The DP has asked MPs to rise to the occasion and reject any proposed legislation that seeks to serve narrow and personal interests of some leaders.  He said dishonest politicians should not use Parliament to salvage their dwindling political fortunes.  Dr Ruto insisted that leaders must learn to keep their word if Kenya is to move forward.  “No legislation can restore the credibility of a deceitful leader. We do not need to pass the law. We will keep our word because we are honourable and we are honest people. I had a coalition agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta and we were decent, we did not have to go to any length to work together,” said Ruto.  By Moses Nyamori | 40 minutes ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 4 hours ago By  Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 4 hours ago