Former AG Charles Njonjo inspecting a Guard of Honour at Prisons Training College in 1972. [File]  Kenyan leaders on Sunday morning took to social media and other platforms to mourn former Attorney-General Charles Njonjo, who died aged 101 on Sunday.  Njonjo succumbed to pneumonia at his Muthaiga home in Nairobi County, his family said.  President Uhuru Kenyatta led the nation in mourning the former AG.  “As a nation, we owe a debt of gratitude to Hon. [Charles] Njonjo and his generation of independence era leaders for their selfless contribution to the laying of the solid foundation upon which our country continues to thrive,” said the president in his condolence message. “Kenya's progressive constitutional and legal regime owes its robustness to Hon. Njonjo's splendid work,” he added.  Deputy President William Ruto eulogised Njonjo as a “knowledgeable and dedicated” civil servant.  “Charles Njonjo devoted his life in serving our country in pre-and post-independent Kenya as a civil servant, Attorney-General, Kikuyu MP and Constitutional Affairs Minister. He was knowledgeable, blunt and a dedicated advocate for the causes he believed in. We will miss his wisdom, company and warmth.  “Our thoughts and prayers are with the Njonjo family, their loved ones and all those who knew and worked with him. Rest in Peace, Sir Njonjo,” said Ruto on Twitter.  Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga described Njonjo as a “towering giant”.  “Mama Ida and I have received with shock and heavy hearts news of the passing of my long-time friend Charles Njonjo. As a nation, we have lost a towering giant who served in key roles during his life. Our legal fraternity greatly benefitted from his input and hard work,” said Odinga.  “He was also a valiant crusader against corruption. During the Chepkube ‘black gold' coffee scandal, Hon. Njonjo was prepared to resign if the key perpetrators of the scandal did not resign from cabinet and parliament," wrote WIPER leader Kalonzo Musyoka.  Baringo Senator and KANU chairperson Gideon Moi said Charles Njonjo had “contributed immensely to Kenya’s legal foundation”.  “It is with sadness that I have learnt of the death of former Attorney-General Hon. Charles Njonjo this morning. Hon. Njonjo contributed immensely to this country's legal foundation and framework being the first Attorney-General after Kenya attained independence.  “Besides that, Hon. Njonjo was a close friend to the late H.E Mzee Moi and our family. On behalf of my family and on my own behalf, I send heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Hon. Njonjo. May God grant the family strength during this difficult time of loss,” said Gideon Moi in a press statement.  Amani National Congress (ANC) Party leader Musalia Mudavadi hailed Njonjo’s contribution to Kenya’s legal reforms.  “I am saddened to learn of the passing on of Charles Mugane Njonjo, one of the country’s early lawyers. Hon. Njonjo played an instrumental role in the constitutional and legal regime of the independent Kenya, serving as the country's first post-independence Attorney-General,” said Mudavadi.  Ford-Kenya Party leader, Moses Wetang’ula, who is also the Senator for Bungoma, said on Twitter: “Mzee Charles Mugane Njonjo has had his last breath. At 101, we celebrate his illustrious and eventful life. May his soul rest in eternal peace.  Amen.”  Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o said he’d learnt of Njonjo’s death “with tremendous shock”.  “It is with tremendous shock and grief that Dorothy and I have learned of the passing on of our friend -former Attorney-General, Charles Mogane Njonjo. Charles was a great friend of my late father, Canon Hezbon Shimei Nyong'o, and they worked together in the Anglican Church for many years together with the late Bishop Henry Okullu.  “We wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Margaret Njonjo and the family. May the good Lord rest his soul in eternal peace,” said the county chief.  Siaya Senator James Orengo said Kenya “will never have another like Njonjo”.  “A giant has fallen. There will never be another like him. Principled and strong in his beliefs and convictions. My heartfelt condolences to the Njonjo family in particular the widow who taught me French at Alliance High School. May the soul of Hon. Charles Njonjo rest in peace,” said Orengo.  NARC-Kenya Party leader Martha Karua said on Twitter: “Rest in peace, Njonjo.”  Njonjo was cremated at 10:30am at the Kariokor Hindu Crematorium on Sunday.  He is survived by a widow and three children (two daughters and a son).  Njonjo served as Kenya’s first native Attorney-General between 1963 and 1979. He retired as AG aged 60. He took over from Eric Griffith-Jones, the Attorney-General of the British administration in Kenya, who was appointed to the position on May1, 1955.  Shortly after retirement as AG, Njonjo was elected unchallenged to the National Assembly in April 1980 as the Member of Parliament for Kikuyu Constituency.  Late President Daniel Moi appointed him to Cabinet in June 1980 to serve as the Minister for Home and Constitutional Affairs.  By Wallace Kantai | 25 minutes ago By Mireri Junior | 55 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Kenya Yearbook Editorial Board | 4 hours ago Key players to watch in Uhuru succession race