Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo now claims that ODM leader Raila Odinga is a "government project".  Kabogo, in an interview with Spice FM on Tuesday morning, said: “You cannot run away from the fact that Raila is now Uhuru’s candidate. If you are a seasoned politician, you should see it.”  The Tujibebe Wakenya Party leader, who commented on the direction of the 2022 General Election, argued that President Uhuru Kenyatta seems to be holding the hidden card in the Azimio La Umoja Movement, a strategic plan to unite the country launched in August last year.  President Kenyatta is, however, on the record dismissing claims that he has a preferred presidential candidate in this year’s general election. In an August 23, 2021 interview with senior news editors, he said: “It is neither my duty nor responsibility to tell Kenyans how they should vote. However, it is my duty to remind Kenyans, that they need to look at who they vote for, and why they are voting for that person.  “It is unfortunate that amongst us (politicians), there are those who will sacrifice [Kenyans’] interests over personal political agenda. I believe these are the things that Kenyans need to be wary of. At the end of the day, it is not for me to dictate to Kenyans who they should elect. It is my hope and prayer that they will elect a leader who doesn’t concentrate on their short term interests, but their long term survivability as citizens and the long term stability of our nation.”  Nominated MP Maina Kamanda, an ardent President Kenyatta supporter, is also on the record saying that Raila Odinga isn't a Government project.  'Don't recycle leaders'  In the Tuesday, January 11 interview on Spice FM Kabogo urged Kenyans "not to recycle" leaders in this year’s general election, "as has been the norm".  “We seem to want to recycle the same old stuff, in respect to leadership,” he stated.  He questioned the intentions of national leaders seeking elective positions this year, adding that there is nothing more left to do and say that hasn’t already been said.  “What is this miracle that will happen now that you couldn’t do before? This is just talk for elections,” the former governor said.  Kabogo, worried that emotive politics would lead to worse outcomes than the 2007/2008 post-election violence, if Kenyans aren’t careful.  Referencing utterances made by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi during a rally led by Deputy President William Ruto in Eldoret at the weekend, the former county chief said: “it’s scary to think where this country will go with this leadership. We are still bound on ethnic inclinations in politics.”     By Erastus M Mulwa | 4 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 18 hours ago By James Munyeki | 20 hours ago Governors, Kalonzo fight for Ukambani leadership