KDF Soldiers in a security patrol in the past. [File, Standard]  European embassies in Kenya have urged their nationals living in the country to avoid public places in the latest terror warning.  In an alert issued on Thursday, the French Embassy told its citizen to be vigilant, adding that threats against Western nationals in Kenya are real.  The embassy said the terrorists target places frequented by foreign nationals including restaurants, hotels, places of leisure and shopping malls especially in Nairobi. “Those in Kenya are advised to exercise vigilance and avoid frequenting some of these public places in the coming days,” the alert reads.  The UK, Dutch and German embassies also warned its citizens against frequenting certain places in the country.  UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development office (FCDO) warned against non-essential travel to areas within 60 kilometres of the Kenya-Somali border, Eastern Garissa County (up to 20km North-West of the A3).  Other areas included in the alert are parts of Mandera, Lamu and Tana River counties.  On Wednesday, more security forces have been deployed to Lamu following another suspected terror attack at Lango la Simba area near Nyongoro injuring Judiciary officials.  The officials were injured by suspected al Shabaab militants as they headed to Garsen town from Kipini Mobile Court at around 6pm.  The gunmen also attacked motorists travelling from Witu area.  Seven people killed  On January 4, seven people were killed by suspected al Shabaab militants in Lamu county  In the attack, police said one man was beheaded while the bodies of four other men were found burnt, with their hands tied, and could not be identified, according to a police report.  The attackers also torched several houses before returning to their hideout  Al Shabaab fighters have carried out several attacks inside Kenya after the government sent troops into Somalia in 2011 in an army operation to flush out militants  By Elvince Joshua | 14 minutes ago By Robert Amalemba | 30 minutes ago By Mireri Junior | 55 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago