Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Ford Kenya wants National Cohesion and Integration Commission to probe Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi over threats to bar the party from campaigning in Trans Nzoia county.  Ford Kenya Secretary General Chris Wamalwa accused Wamunyinyi of inciting residents to resist the party's campaigns in the county.  "Wamunyinyi's utterance are inciting. The MP wants residents to resist our campaigns and this is wrong," he said.   The Kanduyi MP while addressing a gathering at Kenyatta Stadium when former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya launched his governor bid over the weekend, urged residents to resist Ford Kenya activities in the area over the alleged poor leadership at the county government.  "Ford Kenya is to blame on the poor development in this county. It should not be allowed to campaign here," Wamunyinyi said.  Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa set the pace when he claimed that residents of Trans-Nzoia have suffered because of poor leadership by Ford Kenya.  "Trans-Nzoia has the worst development record. It is shameful to Ford Kenya to seek leadership again. Say no to Ford Kenya," he said.  Ford Kenya Secretary General distanced the party from the county government leadership arguing that Governor Patrick Khaemba rode on the party ticket to capture the seat and it was not their role to oversight his performance.  Addressing journalists at his Kananachi home in Kiminini, Dr Wamalwa said the party has nothing to do with the affairs of the county government.  "Ford Kenya is not to blame for the poor leadership at the county government. Khaemba used the party ticket to ascend to power and it is not the role of Ford Kenya to supervise his performance," he said.  Ford Kenya Secretary General faulted the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) for linking the party to failures of the county government.  Ford Kenya and DAP-K are fighting to control Trans-Nzoia and Bungoma counties.  By Nathan Ochunge | 20 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 20 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 7 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago