Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo at Redeemed Gospel Church, Liberty Christian Centre in Nairobi during service, on Sunday, January 9, 2022 [David Njaaga, Standard]  The entry of former Kiambu governor William Kabogo into the governor's race has stirred the county succession matrix.  Mr Kabogo, who had earlier not shown any interest in the seat, has pulled a surprise by declaring that he will face off with the incumbent James Nyoro and former governor Ferdinard Waititu. He has been sending mixed signals and was quoted earlier saying that he would go for the presidency.  In a political meeting in Thika, Kabogo said he has bowed to pressure from the electorate and will now go for the governor's seat. The former governor has his own political vehicle, Tujibebe Wakenya Party. Waititu ganged up with Nyoro and the current head of Kiambu delivery unit John Mugwe to dislodge Kabogo in 2017.  Waititu and Dr Nyoro were elected on a Jubilee ticket. Waititu was later impeached and charged in court over corruption allegations, paving way for his deputy to ascend to the seat. Waititu said he will contest for Kiambu governor seat on UDA ticket. He has vowed to recapture the seat, which he says was taken away from him through dirty politics.   The former governor has been on Deputy President William Ruto's campaign caravan in Kiambu where he has often said he was the first casualty for supporting Ruto.  “There is nothing wrong I had done in Kiambu, there is no money that was lost. I was fixed because of openly supporting Ruto, the DCI, DPP and the police were used to persecute me thereby denying the Kiambu electorate their rightful choice of governor,” Waititu said.  He promised to complete projects he had initiated while in office. Nyoro will defend his seat after taking over from Waititu three years ago. He has not indicated his political vehicle but he leans towards Azimio la Umoja Movement.  By Moses Nyamori and Judah Ben-Hur | 10 minutes ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 6 hours ago By Grace Ng’ang’a | 6 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 6 hours ago