Peter Denis Bwire who was arrested on Friday for allegedly obtaining Sh1.3 million from three people by false pretences that he was in a position to process for each of them a two-way travel air ticket to Bolivia. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  A businessman has been charged with obtaining over Sh1 million from three people claiming he was in a position to book them return tickets to Bolivia.  A businessman who was arrested on Friday for allegedly obtaining Sh1,302,000 falsely from three people to book return tickets to Bolivia has been charged.  Peter Denis Bwire allegedly obtained money from three persons saying he was in a position to process two-way travel air tickets.  He was presented before Milimani court Senior Principal Magistrate Bernard Ochoi and denied three charges of the offence. The first count was that on December 19 last year at Didom Tours and tours offices located on the fourth floor of Ruprani house along Moktar Daddah road, Nairobi with intent to defraud obtained Sh434 000 from Abdifatah Ali Osman on pretence that he would process him a two way Bolivia travel air ticket.  According to the charge sheet he did this knowing well that he was not able.  In the second count on the same day and place with intent to defraud allegedly obtained the same amount of money Sh434, 000 from Zachariah Abdullahi in the pretence that he would also provide him with a two way Bolivia travel while knowing he was not able.  Warsame Salat Wardere, according to the third charge sheet was allegedly defrauded of Sh434, 000 by the accused who promised to process for him a two-way travel air ticket to Bolivia but it was in vain.  The accused denied all the charges and was released on a cash bail of Sh500, 000.  He had earlier on told the Magistrate that he had entered into negotiations with the complainants on how he can settle the matter.  "Your honor I pray for the court to give me a little time so that I can complete negotiations with the complainants," said Bwire.  The prosecution had applied to be given five days so that police can hold him at Central police station as they investigate for other crimes touching on him related to ticket processing.  Ochoi ordered that he be detained at the police station for three days as he continues negotiating with his complainants. His case will be mentioned on Thursday this week.  By Kamau Muthoni | 9 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 11 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 12 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 13 hours ago