Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Two petitioners have mounted a hurdle in the way of Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga's race for State House by seeking to lock him out of the August 9 general election.  A week after nominated Member of Parliament David ole Sankok said he would sue Raila over his 2018 swearing-in as the peoples’ president, a petition has been filed seeking to bar him from contesting. Sankok is an ally to Deputy President William Ruto.  The petitioners, George Bush and John Kenga, also want the court to compel Director of Criminal Investigation George Kinoti, Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to institute criminal charges against Raila.  According to the two, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s handshake partner has never been called to account for his January 30, 2018 act. They also want ODM barred from fielding candidates over the parallel swearing-in ceremony. Bush claims he is a registered voter in Starehe, Nairobi. He is aggrieved that the parallel swearing-in was a premeditated political event whose consequence should be either punishment by life imprisonment or death.  He stated that others who were present when Raila allegedly took oath were deported lawyer Miguna Miguna - who is barred from traveling to Kenya over the event - and Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang, and both were allegedly charged in court.  Kajwang was charged before a Kajiado court but was acquitted after the court found that there was nothing wrong with the oath. Chief Magistrate Stephen Mbungi said no crime was committed when Raila was sworn in as the people’s president.  Bush and Kenga faulted failure to investigate Raila over the event.  “Failure to investigate, charge and prosecute Raila Amollo Odinga gives an impression that other Kenyans belonging to a certain category are over and above the Constitution and laws Kenya,” they claim.  They have also enjoined the Registrar of Political Parties and Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in the case.   By Anthony Gitonga and Kennedy Gachuhi | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Phares Mutembei | 5 hours ago By Anthony Gitonga and Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 20 hours ago