Deputy President William Ruto addresses wananchi at Makutano in West Pokot.  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday returned to Ukambani for the second time in a week to seek the region’s support. Earlier this week, the DP was in Machakos County in a region believed to be Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s turf.  In Makueni County, the DP held rallies at Nzeveni market in Kibwezi East Constituency and Syumile market in Kibwezi West Constituency.  The DP commissioned a church bus for AIC Kathonzweni where he avoided politics. But he had to wait in the church office for attendants to be mobilised. Police officers barred locals without masks from entering the church compound with majority forced to follow proceedings from the fence.   The DP urged the clergy to build good relationships for a cohesive nation. “I want to beseech all leaders including the clergy to pray for our nation so that we can do all we are doing observing peace. Even with the campaigns, let’s not forget that God is the one who will decide the next leadership," he said.  He added: “Kenyans are wise and understanding people. Everybody should be given time to sell their manifestos everywhere.”  Ruto said Kenya will move forward together if all leaders work for the good of the people. “We should not cause friction that can lead to chaos and violence. Let’s build bridges of peace and unity,” he added.  Ruto was accompanied by Garissa Town MP Aden Duale, former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, Prof Emmanuel Mutisya, the Makueni UDA governor aspirant among other leaders.  In Kibwezi, the DP reached out to Kalonzo and asked him to join his camp and form the next government.  “Kalonzo is now a tired man. He is fed up with that man and I ask him we join hands to form the next government. I heard recently that your governor (Kivutha Kibwana) say you have sent him to join Raila, have you sent him?” asked Ruto amid cheers.  Ruto promised that universal health care will be revived and all Kenyans will enjoy free medical cover.  “I want to promise you that before December, everybody here will benefit from free universal health coverage where those who have no capacity to pay, the Government will pay for them,” said Ruto.  Prof Mutisya highlighted the priority development areas that his county government will focus on once elected governor. “I call on the Kamba community to put their votes in one basket and elect leaders under UDA since that is where their priorities will be fully addressed,” Mutisya said.  Duale dismissed continuous meetings in hotels, saying they will not guarantee leadership. “We want to tell Raila Odinga, we know you’re a state project. They are being used by the State even here in Ukambani we have Charity Ngilu, Kivutha Kibwana and Alfred Mutua who are being used by the State to cause a rift in Ukambani and fight Kalonzo,” said Duale.  He reached out to Kalonzo to come on board and work with UDA saying on the other side there is no space. Makueni UDA coordinator James Mbaluka said they were opposed to political conmanship and had made their decision.  By Stephen Nzioka | 19 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 2 days ago By Philip Muasya | 7 days ago By Stephen Nzioka | 7 days ago Do or die race: Battlegrounds to watch in the August 9 polls