Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nancy Macharia addresses attendees during the a roll out of Teacher Professional Development(TPD) in Karen, Nairobi on September 22, 2021 [Boniface Okendo,Standard]  Almost 3,000 teaching positions in the country are up for grabs as the Teachers’ Service Commission seeks to replace retired, dead or sacked tutors in primary and secondary schools.  A bulk of the vacancies announced are for primary school teaching jobs (2,053), representing a 69.7 per cent of the slots available. Another 892 positions (30.3 per cent) are for those seeking secondary school teaching jobs.  The vacancies have already been advertised, and applications can be submitted to the TSC online portal.  The commission didn’t reveal the applications deadline date, though it says the vacancies should be filled promptly, and the successful applicants report to their workstations by April 25, when the 2022 Term One will begin. Candidates seeking primary teaching jobs will be interviewed at sub-county level, while those seeking employment in secondary schools will be interviewed at the institutions that they’d have applied to join.  Interested applicants should submit their applications through the Commission’s website www.tsc.go.ke under ‘Careers’ or teachersonline.tsc.go.ke  According to the Commission, eligible candidates must: be Kenyan citizens, holders of a P1 certificate in the case of primary schools; and a minimum of a diploma in education in the case of secondary schools, registered as teachers with the TSC.  The job vacancies announced by TSC come on the back of a push by the Kenya National Union of Teachers(KNUT) Secretary-General Collins Oyuu to have more tutors employed.  Addressing journalists in Nairobi on Tuesday, January 18, Oyuu said primary schools need at least 84,000 teachers while secondary schools need at least 12,000.  “For the government to address the teacher-shortage, it should be employing 20,000 teachers annually against the 5,000 it’s currently hiring every year,” he said.  By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 6 hours ago By Emmanuel Too | 7 hours ago By  Nzau Musau | 7 hours ago Judge saves Wanjigi after magistrate orders arrest