Hellen Vuyanzi with her three children. The younger two aged 4 and 2 years died alongside her on Saturday, January 1, 2022. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  A youthful woman from Sirende Village in Lugari Sub-County, Kakamega County set her house on fire on Saturday night, resulting in three fatalities, including herself.  Hellen Vuyanzi is alleged to have doused parts of the house in petrol before lighting it up.  Lugari Sub-County Police Commander, Bernard Ngungu, told The Standard that Vuyanzi, who was in her thirties, had accused her husband of infidelity.  “We had earlier Saturday counselled Vuyanzi and her spouse, Thomas Amito, after a domestic dispute arose between them. We understand that Hellen had accused Thomas of cheating on her with another woman,” said Ngungu. Police say the mother-of-three might have bought petrol from a local filling station, and used it to set her matrimonial home alight.  Vuyanzi’s neighbour, who spoke to The Standard on condition of anonymity, said that the deceased and her partner had been having recurrent domestic wrangles.  “The two were quarreling now and again, with the woman accusing her husband of infidelity. We didn’t expect that their issues would end tragically,” said the informant.  Stephen Okila, the cousin of Vuyanzi’s husband Thomas Amito, told The Standard that Amito called him on Saturday night and informed him that his (Amito’s) house was on fire.  Amito was away from home at the time.  “I rushed to his house, and confirmed that it was true – that the house was on fire. Unfortunately, my cousin’s wife and her two children aged 4 and 2 years had already been burnt to death. We understand that the couple’s eldest child, a boy aged 11, managed to escape through the window,” said Okila.  Okila said he was “not aware” of any marital issues that his cousin, Amito, had with his partner.  “I was close to them (Amito and Vuyanzi), and I didn’t hear of any issues with their marriage.”  Bodies of Vuyanzi and her two children were taken to Webuye County Hospital morgue.  By Robert Amalemba | 10 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago By Benard Lusigi | 2 days ago By Benard Lusigi | 2 days ago Key players to watch in Uhuru succession race