Deputy President William Ruto addresses a campaign rally in Karen, Nairobi on January 18, 2022. [Reuters, Baz Ratner]  Deputy President William Ruto has called on youths to register as voters reminding them that its their patriotic duty to participate in making the next government.  Ruto who addressed rallies in Karen, Kibra and Dagoretti in Nairobi said youths can only elect the right leaders if they register as voters.  “Our single most patriotic duty is to have a voters card. I ask the youth to vote for right leaders, right politics and the right government that will address their needs and aspirations. It is you to decide, and you cannot decide without a voters card. Register as a voter now!,” he said.  The DP enumerated Jubilee government development projects and asked the residents to support his bid for presidency. He hit out at the government over what he said is an attempt to impose a president to the people.    “We have brains, we can choose for ourselves. You can’t choose for us,” said the DP.  “Will we vote for a project selected by people in a hotel or are you going to select your own preferred candidate?”He posed.  Ruto took a swipe at President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga saying that while he is geared to revitalise the economy, proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative want to, “increase power for the presidency and increase the number of state officers.”  The DP maintained that he will not be threatened by violence and accused his competitors of being behind chaos witnessed in his rallies.  Ruto outlined his vision for small scale traders when he addressed rallies at the DC Grounds, Kenyatta Market and Toi Market in Kibra constituency.  He was accompanied by MPs Nixon_Korir (Lang’ata), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South.), Kimani Ichungwah (Kkuyu) and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga.  Others were EALA legislator Simon Mbugua, MPs Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), George Theuri (Embakasi West), Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Governor aspirants Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, (Nairobi), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) and several UDA party aspirants.  By Brian Otieno and Judah Ben-Hur | 3 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 8 hours ago By James Munyeki | 9 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 9 hours ago