Democratic Action Party (DAP-K) leader Wafula Wamunyiyi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Some legislators from the Western region have criticised Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi for inviting Deputy President William Ruto to the party's National Delegate Congress (NDC).  The leaders, who are allied to ODM leader Raila Odinga's Azimio La Umoja movement, accused Mudavadi of misleading the Western region politically.  Democratic Action Party (DAP-K) leader Wafula Wamunyiyi said the region will not align itself with Mudavadi in the August General Election as there is no hope of the ANC leader leading them to the next government.    Addressing a press conference in Nairobi yesterday, Wamunyinyi accused Mudavadi of constantly working towards distancing the region from being on the national table, saying it was time to bring all this to an end.  "Every transitional election since 2002, Mudavadi has made monumental errors. Now he is making another blunder but this time we will not rescue him," he said.  "From Western Kenya we want to inform Mudavadi and his cohorts that we shall not allow him to mislead our people."  Present in the press conference were National Assembly Majority Whip and Navakholo MP  Emmanuel Wangwe, MPs George Aladwa (Makadara), Tim Wanyonyi (Westlands), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Ayub Savula (Lugari).  The leaders also accused Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula of secretly campaigning for Ruto in the region.  Wamunyinyi said the legislators will continue to drum up support for Raila in the State House race.  "Our gloves are off and we want to make it clear that for us UDA is not an option," said the Kanduyi MP.  The MPs lauded Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for walking out of Bomas of Kenya when Ruto arrived for the NDC.  "His (Mudavadi's) teaming up with UDA or William Ruto is not news. What is news is that upright people walked out," said Wamunyinyi.  By Too Jared | 4 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 8 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 10 hours ago Raila: State project or change in strategy?