ODM leader Raila Odinga in a meeting with Mount Kenya Foundation and Maa leaders at Safari Park Hotel, Nairobi. [Dennish Ochieng, Standard]  ODM leader, Raila Odinga yesterday said that Azimio la Umoja Movement was formulated to unite the country.  Mr Raila said it was time to also think of pastoralists since they were among the communities affected by drought and other natural calamities.  He argued that one of the key ways to cushion the communities was through embracing modern economy.  “We must create modern economy. Our people are suffering. We must move from traditional pastoralism and farming,” Raila said   The ODM leader was speaking during the Azimio la Umoja consultative forum between the Mt Kenya foundation (MKF) and the Maa leaders at a Nairobi hotel yesterday.  At the same time Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko and Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku said the Maasai community will enter into a pact with Azimio la Umoja Movement ahead of the August 9 elections.  The meeting was attended by politicians, aspirants and opinion shapers from Kajiado, Narok, Samburu, Laikipia and Baringo counties. While drumming up support for Raila’s candidature, Tobiko urged the community to be wary of leaders they want to form the next government.  “Do not give the country away it is very clear we have two horses in the polls be very careful whom you choose,” he said. Tobiko said the new found relationship between the Maa and Mt Kenya, was the “earthquake” people had anticipated. The CS termed Azimio la Umoja as heaven sent, saying it was only way to take the country to another level.  Governor Lenku said: “We declare in one accord and firmness that we shall together vigorously campaign for and elect Raila as the next president.”  MKF Director Githinji Kiragu said they have already made their choice and they will not go back.  “We have in no doubt decided that Azimio is the way forward for the future prosperity of this country. This is a divine nation and we have to,” he said.  Ascends to power  Kiragu said MKF and Maa have resolved to have a common mission which is ensuring that Raila ascends to power when President Uhuru Kenyatta leaves office later this year.  “We will ensure that we fulfill this mission in solidarity,” he said.  Kiambu Govenor James Nyoro dismissed claims that the ODM leader is yet to be fully embraced in Mt Kenya saying that they have surpassed the numbers.  Also present were Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu, Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina and Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege among others.   By Kennedy Gachuhi and Julius Chepkwony | 42 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 5 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 7 hours ago