ODM leader Raila Odinga with deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya (left), secretary-general Edwin Sifuna among other leaders when he received defectors from ANC and Ford Kenya at Orange House on January 27. [Courtesy]  Azimio la Umoja will be registered as a movement next week, following the signing into law of Political Parties Bill by President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga has said.  Speaking at Orange House on Thursday after receiving defectors from ANC and Ford Kenya, Raila said Azimio la Umoja will be registered into a movement in the coming days.  He said after the registration, the team will embark on a serious to sell our joint agenda for the country ahead of the August 9 polls.  “I am happy you have joined ODM which is a member of the new big group we are forming called Azimio la Umoja and it will be registered next if not on Friday,” he told the defectors. “We will embark on serious campaigns after next week once it is registered and Kenyans will see our plans for the country as a team,” he added.  President Kenyatta signed the recently enacted Political Parties (Amendment) Bill of 2021 into law after its approval by the National Assembly over the Christmas and New Year festive period before being referred to the Senate where it was passed yesterday.  The new law amends the Political Parties Act of 2011 by introducing the concept of coalition political parties, outlining functions of political parties as well as changing the criteria of accessing the Political Parties Fund.  The law also empowers the Registrar of Political Parties to certify political party membership lists and nomination rules among other transformative provisions aimed at strengthening management of political parties and enhancing democracy.  Defectors  Among those who decamped to the Orange party include 14 MCAs from Kakamega County and two from the Assembly of Busia County.  Earlier, the former PM welcomed Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar, State Department for Gender CAS Jebii Kilimo, former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo and former Agriculture Minister Dr Sally Kosgei.  “Azimio la Umoja Movement continued to reap big as Party Leader officially welcomed UG Senator Margaret Kamar, CAS Linah Jebii Kilimo, former IG David Kimaiyo and former Minister for Agriculture Dr Sally Kosgei into the Movement,” ODM party wrote on its Twitter handle on Thursday.  While receiving Azimio’s new members, Raila was accompanied by ODM Deputy Party leader Wycliffe Oparanya, party secretary-general Edwin Sifuna, Saboti MP Caleb Amisi, Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito among other leaders.  By George Njunge | 6 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 11 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and Julius Chepkwony | 15 hours ago