Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka speaks at a political rally in Unoa grounds, Wote, Makueni County. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Wiper Secretary-General Shakila Abdallasays party leader Kalonzo Musyoka will be on the presidential ballot under the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) despite pressure to work with ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto.  Ms Abdalla warned leaders against ignoring the Wiper leader saying he has the potential to sail through the presidential elections as bitter rivals Raila and Ruto engage in political rhetoric.  Addressing party delegates and aspirants at Licodep hall in Likoni sub-county, Mombasa, at the weekend, the former Lamu county Women Representative said Kalonzo, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, businessman Jimmy Wanjigi and Cyrus Jirongo have embarked on countrywide campaigns and will tour Coast soon.   She announced that the party will activate the grassroots leadership and aspirants will be encouraged to reach consensus to avert acrimonious fallout during nominations.  “Wiper is the third biggest political party and it determined the outcome of the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill 2021," she said.  “The other leaders are looking for us but we must go to the ballot. We have refused to be carried in wheelbarrows or embrace Azimio La Umoja Movement. Kalonzo will be on the ballot on August 9,” Abdalla added.  The Wiper Secretary-General was flanked by the secretary for religious affairs Sheikh Twaha Omar, deputy national treasurer Mohamed Zakir, Kipevu MCA Faith Mwende and Kalonzo’s Mombasa pointman and former councillor Solomon Musyoka.  She said the Wiper leader is in OKA to stay and is working with leaders of integrity.  Abdalla noted that Kalonzo was best suited to fight corruption, address unemployment, poverty, insecurity and drug abuse among the youths in the country.  “Wiper leader is capable of changing the course of politics in the country and better the lives of  Kenyans. You should not lose hope. Kalonzo will tackle corruption, insecurity, high taxation and ensure a 24-hour economy and a free port to spur economic growth. Let’s try him this time round,” she said.  The Wiper official urged youths to register as voters to enable them to chart their destiny on August 9.  Kalonzo Musyoka speaking with Martha Karua during a rally at Kerugoya Stadium in Kirinyaga County. January 30, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  Ms Mwende told party leaders to be vigilant saying a rival party was plotting to sponsor weak candidates in Wiper so as to win many seats at the Coast.  “There is a plot by our competition to sponsor weak candidates in our party in the August 9 elections and we must be vigilant. We also need to put more energy and sacrifice in our campaign to win more seats,” she said.  She exuded confidence that Kalonzo will trounce Raila and Ruto in the presidential elections.  Mr Zakir told delegates to intensify campaigns for candidates to ensure they win more seats in the country.  “Kalonzo promises to make the best president for Kenya and we should stick with him,” he said.  Mr Omar told residents to embrace Wiper party saying the top leadership comprises of Coast politicians.  “The party has given top positions to the Coast region. Chirau Mwakwere is national chairman, Shakila is secretary-general and her deputy is Dan Mwashako from Taita Taveta. Zakir is deputy national treasurer and I have been entrusted with the position of secretary for religious affairs,” he said.  By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 hour ago By Stanley Ongwae | 1 hour ago By Erastus Mulwa | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago