COTU Secretary-General Francis Atwoli during the Azimio la Umoja National Convention on December 10, 2021 at Moi International sports complex Kasarani. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Kanu National Organising Secretary Abdurahman Bafadhil has told off Central Organisation of Trade Union Secretary General Francis Atwoli and accused him of insubordination in the party.  This was after Mr Atwoli said party members were appealing to him to urge the leadership to convene a National Delegates Conference (NDC) where it would be decided that Kanu joins the Azimio la Umoja Movement.  The Cotu boss vowed to lead party members into Azimio la Umoja Movement.  However, in a statement sent to newsrooms today, Mr Bafadhil said Atwoli was purporting to exercise authority he does not have by attempting to convene the NDC, fully aware that such an unconstitutional move does not serve any useful purpose. He also termed the Cotu boss's utterances as “unfortunate and misguided” claiming they were probably made either, out of ignorance of the party constitution or mischief.  “It’s important to note that at the end of September last year, the party held a duly constituted NDC at the Bomas of Kenya and Mr Atwoli did not attend. Had he attended, he would have participated in the legitimate decision-making process to chart the way forward for the party as did the bona fide delegates in attendance,” said Bafadhil.    The organising secretary also urged Atwoli to “concentrate on affairs of the labour movement where he is an authority” and avoid playing to the public gallery for political expediency.  “Mr Atwoli knows too well that if indeed he is a senior member of the party as he claims, and who wishes to play a useful role, he has direct access to the leadership of the party whereupon he can give his advice. He, therefore, does not necessarily have to mount public platforms of other political formations to issue statements that cannot be justified,” he said.  The development comes as One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Kanu National Chairman Gideon Moi are strategising to form a third force to counter Deputy President William Ruto and Raila Odinga in the August 9 presidential polls.   Last week, the principals, save for Mudavadi, met at Lake Elementaita Mountain Lodge in Nakuru County, where they said unveiling their preferred presidential candidate was “work in progress.”  This was a follow-up meeting to receive a report by a technical committee on modalities of picking the OKA flag bearer.  They indicated that the technical committee handed them a road map that was supposed to guide them on who was suitable to be the flag bearer and that they would study it before a decision is made.   By Abdimalik Hajir | 3 hours ago By Anthony Gitonga and Kennedy Gachuhi | 11 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 19 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Phares Mutembei | 19 hours ago Ghostly luxury apartment, ownership of Yaya Centre dog Nicholas Biwott in death