Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  The One Kenya Alliance (OKA) received a major boost yesterday after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi pledged to work with the team and form a third force ahead of the August 9 elections.  Mr Muturi, who is allied to the Democratic Party of Kenya (DP), made the declaration after OKA principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-Kenya) and United Democratic Party’s (UDP) Cyrus Jirongo paid him a courtesy call at his Nairobi home, yesterday.  The Speaker said there was need for the country to remain peaceful during and after the General Election, hence his decision to join OKA. “Going forward, we will be working together for the benefit of this country. We need to maintain peace, knowing that there is a tomorrow,” he said.  Muturi, who has declared interest in the presidency, was hospitalised in December last year following a minor accident in his office.    He underwent a minor surgery on his right shoulder to correct a fracture he had sustained.  The Speaker plans to hit the ground running once he completes therapy and doctors declare him fit. “Just a few days and I will be back on the ground and talk to my people,” he said.  Muturi promised to reveal major plans for the Democratic Party soon, as the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession race intensifies.  Welcoming the decision by Muturi to join OKA, Mudavadi said: “More to join, big coalition loading, one Kenya loading.”  Already, OKA has a working agreement with the Mt Kenya Unity Forum, which is led by Narc-Kenya party leader Martha Karua.  OKA will face off with ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja and Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance.  The OKA principals have denied holding coalition talks with Raila or Ruto, maintaining that they are united and focused on their political mission of ensuring the country gets just and inclusive leadership.  “We wish to assure our supporters that OKA is intact. The alliance continues to grow and attract key political stakeholders,” the principals said in a joint statement.  Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have declared that they have not held talks with the DP to form a coalition, while Kalonzo said he had not been in touch with Raila on matters August polls.  “You cannot flirt with somebody with whom you have no communication,” he said during a press conference on Wednesday.  By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 7 hours ago By Rosa Agutu | 11 hours ago KQ pilots push for overhaul of airline's board and management