ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi at ANC offices in Amani house on 24th January 2022 [David Gichuru,Standard]  Musalia Mudavadi’s political advisor Joseph Simekha says the Amani National Congress (ANC) leader “pulled a fast one” on his One Kenya Alliance (OKA) co-principals.  Simekha claims Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper Party and Gideon Moi of KANU were inclined more towards Raila Odinga’s camp, and that the two were imploring upon Mudavadi to join Azimio la Umoja.  “They (Kalonzo and Gideon) were pushing him (Mudavadi) into the [undefined] role that has been designed for him in Azimio,” Simekha said during an interview on Citizen Television on Monday, January 24.  According to the political analyst, Mudavadi’s role in Azimio la Umoja would be “less lucrative” compared to what Musyoka and Gideon would get in the ODM chief’s political matrix. Simekha claims Mudavadi was “aware” of the behind-the-curtain deals, and that prompted his decision to join forces with Deputy President William Ruto.  On Sunday, January 23, Mudavadi presided over ANC’s Annual Delegates Conference (ADC), where he was endorsed as the party’s presidential candidate. DP Ruto attended the event, catching Gideon Moi and Kalonzo Musyoka by surprise.  The KANU boss and his Wiper counterpart would, upon learning of Ruto’s invitation to the event, storm out of the function held at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi.  Both Gideon and Kalonzo said they were unware that Mudavadi had invited Ruto to the convention.  In his speech, DP Ruto said, moving forward, ANC and UDA will hold joint rallies in efforts to consolidate the coalition’s support base across the country. Some of the areas that Ruto said he and Mudavadi will tour include Nakuru, Western Kenya and Central.  Ruto is on the record saying he will soon disclose to the public terms and conditions of his pact with Mudavadi.  This comes as sections of politicians allied to Musyoka and Gideon alleged betrayal by Mudavadi.  The ANC chief’s political strategist, Simekha, however, claims that One Kenya Alliance (OKA) won’t survive the political future, as “both Kalonzo and Gideon are pro-Azimio la Umoja”.  “I would be surprised if they don’t join Azimio [la Umoja] or if they haven't been always members of Azimio, just not making it public. That was the secret-making in plain sight,” he said.  Musyoka, who is a key cog in OKA, however, maintains that his presidential quest is intact, and that Mudavadi, who was playing a “roadblock” role, is now out of the way.  “I am soldering on. I will not waver. It is obvious some people had put roadblocks on the way, but now the path is very clear. It is now State House direct,” he said on Monday during a roadside address in Mwingi, Kitui County.  OKA principals say they will now retreat to chart the way forward after the exits of Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. The latter two have joined forces with Ruto ahead of the August 9 General Election.  Matungulu MP Stephen Mule said Mudavadi’s “indecisiveness” would make it hard for Kenyans to trust him, again.  “Kenyans will never trust Mudavadi, ever again. He has betrayed Kalonzo, Gideon and Wetang’ula. His action marks the beginning of the end of his political career,” said Mule.  By Wilberforce Okwiri | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 6 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 6 hours ago