The Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua (2nd, left) and Archbishop Martin Kivuva of Mombasa Archdiocese (left) cut the cake during Loreto Msongari Sisters 100 years anniversary celebrations in Nairobi on  January 29, 2022. [Wilberforce Okwiri,Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has praised Loreto Sisters projects in healthcare and education.  Loreto Sisters Msongari is a member of the Institute of the Blessed Virgin Mary, a Roman Catholic religious congregation founded in Saint-Omer, France.  It was founded by Sister Mary Ward, later spreading to Africa and establishing Loreto Sisters Eastern Africa, which celebrated 100 years yesterday. In a speech read by Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua, Uhuru said Loreto Sisters has inspired all persons of faith through its works and charity.  President Uhuru was expected to be the chief guest during the celebration at Loreto Convent Msongari in Nairobi.    ‘’The fruit of their commitment to God and to the Catholic faith as seen in healthcare, education, orphanages, care for the destitute and the elderly is inspirational,” Uhuru said.  On education, the Loreto Kilifi flagship project, which will have a primary, secondary school and a resource centre, will ensure a well-rounded education.  Uhuru lauded the attention on vulnerable girls at the Coast region, which he said is in line with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals Number IV. It outlines right, inclusive and equitable education.  Through cooperation between Loreto Sisters and the Education Ministry, plans are at an advanced stage to admit learners to the school in May. They will be from vulnerable communities around the Coast.  Uhuru said Loreto Kilifi will be a testament to the government’s commitment to ensure even the vulnerable and marginalised children have access to education.  Loreto Sisters runs more than 10 schools in the country.  Uhuru added that the Loreto Endowment Fund is now fully established with structures to ensure accountability and transparency of admission into the school.  He had pledged Sh10 million towards the fund in January last year.  “Together with my Sh10 million shillings, the Loreto Sisters have now managed to raise an additional same amount, bringing to Sh20 million total.”  The President also said the Loreto Convent Msongari ground title deed will soon be freehold.  “I am pleased to announce that the order I made last year to ensure the conversion of the title to freehold interest is right underway.”  Mombasa Archbishop Martin Kivuva, who presided over the celebration on behalf of Nairobi Archbishop Philip Anyolo, decried the collapsing healthcare in the country due to the failure of the Universal Healthcare (UHC) project.  “We are grateful for our partnership in health and education but we are also saddened by the ongoings in these key areas that affect the ordinary mwananchi.  Archbishop Martin Kivuva of Mombasa Archdiocese during the celebration of Loreto Msongari Sisters 100th anniversary in Nairobi on January 29, 2022. [Wilberforce Okwiri,Standard]  “Our hospitals are not serving their purpose because we were promised to be covered under the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). We signed the documents and selected hospitals but it’s not working,” Kivuva said.  The cleric said the cost of education has become too high for many parents to meet.  “In many countries in Europe and beyond, the government is able to pay fees for students up to university level. I am sure if we sealed corruption loopholes Kenya can also afford to do that.  “We say education is free in Kenya but we are not there yet.”  Bishop Kivuva urged the government to make funds available for both public and private schools.  He challenged the politicians running for the presidency and other elective posts to honour their promises and make good use of taxpayers’ money.     By Dennis Kabaara | 1 hour ago By Rosa Agutu | 3 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 13 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 18 hours ago