COTU Secretary General Francis Francis Atwoli briefing media at his home in Bofa, Kilifi County [Robert Menza]  Trade unionist Francis Atwoli has asked Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi to come clean on rumours that his Sh300 million Karen home was funded by Deputy President William Ruto.  Speaking to the press in Kilifi County today, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary-General accused Mudavadi and his FORD-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula, of selling their parties to the highest bidder.  "As Francis Atwoli, I can account for everything that I have, considering everything that I own is out of my hard-earned allowances and wages. Where does Musalia, who is not employed, not an industrialist nor with a known business, get his money other than engaging in political conmanship using his kiosk ANC party," he probed.  By the time of going to press, The Standard was yet to get a response from Mudavadi's close allies following Atwoli's allegations. Atwoli, who was responding to Mudavadi's declaration on his decision to work with the DP, was displeased and threatened that leaders associating with him would not clinch elective seats, in the upcoming August polls.  "...such characters will be assumed to have contracted political Ebola and thus the voters will give them a wide berth," he added.    The unionist also accused Mudavadi of betrayal to his One Kenya Alliance (OKA) counterparts, who had to storm out of his conference when they learned that the DP was invited to the event.   "Kenyans were treated to an Oscar-winning show yesterday when Mudavadi invited Ruto to his NDC without the knowledge of his other OKA principles. How then can Mudavadi talk about the politics of betrayal, dishonesty and deceit while he himself cannot be trusted?" he wondered.  In addition, Atwoli responded to Mudavadi who had faulted the labour movement leadership for allegedly cannibalising unions.  Without mentioning anyone, the convener of Bukhungu II meeting said the movement was being led by persons he described as clowns.  "COTU (K) is a strong, independent and free labour movement with a membership that ANC party might never achieve even if it were to be given the nine proverbial cat lives.   "I would like, at this point, to strongly warn Kenyans against any leader who finds a progressive and strong labour movement a threat to their rule.  By Phares Mutembei | 2 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago Musalia: Was it an earthquake or just a tremor at his feet?