Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria addressed the press after he held a closed meeting with dairy cooperative society officials where he announced an increment of milk price from Sh35 per litre to Sh40 per litre. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has warned leaders against disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta and fellow Mt Kenya politicians.  Speaking at Mumbi Grounds in Murang’a town on Thursday during the launch of a Sh1 billion Wachuuzi Sacco loan package to benefit small scale traders and farmers, the governor said all leaders and presidential aspirants deserve respect.  Mr Iria, who is eyeing the presidency through his Usawa Kwa Wote Party, said it was hypocrisy for some leaders to incite Mt Kenya residents against President Kenyatta and their leaders.  “The narrative of insults propagated by the politicians is meant to ridicule and demean the Gema community, which has eight million votes, enough to take somebody to State House,” said Iria. He promised to unite and protect Mt Kenya people ahead of the August 9 elections. He said he would not allow other leaders to turn the region into a political battle field for personal interest.  “Other presidential candidates like Raila Odinga (ODM) and Deputy President William Ruto (UDA) have marked their territories in their home turf. We shall also do the same with Mt Kenya region,” said the governor.   He however said all candidates are welcome to Mt Kenya region to sell their agenda but not play divisive politics. "I have officially started my campaigns and will go all over the country to sell my agenda, “he said.  He said he was the Mt Kenya candidate with blessings from the region cautioned voters not to be lied that there was no candidate from the region.  “Usawa kwa Wote party and other parties from the region will work with like-minded leaders who have Kenyans' interests at heart and not personal ambitions. I will be walking this journey with those who are willing," he said.  He also told off leaders disrespecting the President. "Give the President the respect he deserves as the head of state and stop mudslinging his name in your campaigns. Uhuru's administration has built roads across the country and revived the railway lines," he said.  By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Ndungu Gachane | 2 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago By James Munyeki | 3 days ago