For the Bill to sail through, it will require the backing of at least 24 senators out of the 47 elected. [Courtesy]  A fresh showdown looms in the Senate over the divisive coalitions Bill as members convene for a special sitting.  Yesterday, senators from the rival political camps differed on whether to introduce amendments to the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021 or have it passed in its current form.  Senators backing Azimio La Umoja are keen to push through the Bill without any amendments while their rivals from Deputy President William Ruto’s camp are scheming to propose changes as part of a wider scheme to delay the process.   The Bill will this morning be introduced for the First Reading by Senate Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio.  However, there would be no debate on the proposed law.  The Bill will be subsequently committed to the Senate Committee on Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights chaired by Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni.  The committee will then give about seven days for various stakeholders to give their views before holding public hearing sessions.  The team will thereafter retreat to prepare a report to be tabled in the House during the Second Reading.  Yesterday, Deputy Minority Leader Stewart Madzayo said he expects the House to clear the Bill.  He said leaders allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga were aware of a scheme by lawmakers allied to the DP to delay the process by introducing multiple amendments.  Madzayo expressed confidence that the Bill will sail through as they have the numbers. For the Bill to sail through, it will require the backing of at least 24 senators out of the 47 elected.  “We are aware of the tricks. Some people want to bring amendments so that it delays or it does not meet the set deadlines. I don’t see any need to make amendments,” he said.  “We have very capable members of the JLAC committee. We are sure time taken in JLAC will be short. I don’t think Kenyans should be worried. Majority of us in the Senate are lawyers and I believe the numbers to have the Bill sail through will be obtained.”  But Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said the Senate will not be used as a conveyor belt, insisting that they will have to introduce amendments.  Cherargei plans to introduce an amendment to have the clause on the formation of a coalition deleted. He also seeks to amend time frame within which parties should enter a coalition.  He argues that the period should be left open for parties to enter into a deal at any point during the electioneering period.  “Things will be different because there will be no nominated senators to be intimidated during the vote,” said the Ruto ally.  “If the Senate changes even a comma, then it will proceed to meditation. Senate is reasonable and will not act as a conveyor belt.”  All the proposed amendments by Ruto allies in the National Assembly were defeated after they were outnumbered by the Azimio La Umoja troops.  Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ and his Nairobi counterpart Johnson Sakaja said unlike the National Assembly, the House will engage in a robust debate.  By Gilbert Kimutai and Nikko Tanui | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 2 hours ago