Narok Senator Ledama Olekina at a past function. He has downplayed the influence of OKA leaders in the August 9 polls. [File, Standard]  Narok Senator Ledama Olekina has told the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals to stop confusing Kenyans with claims of a none-existent third force ahead of the 2022 General Election.  During a phone interview with The Standard on Thursday, Olekina said the outfit will have very insignificant role if any to decide who will win the August 9 polls.  “They want to confuse Kenyans with some of them threatening to make major announcements seven months to the polls, it will not change anything,” he said.  Olekina dismissed the much-talked-about declaration by Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi on January 23, saying Kenyans have already made up their mind on who to vote for as their president. Mudavadi has told Kenyans to wait for a major political announcement on Sunday, January 23 during its National Delegates Convention (NDC) at Bomas of Kenya.  “Mudavadi’s declaration will not change anything. Kenyans know what and who they want to in 2022 polls,” he said, adding that the race will between Azimio la Umoja Movment's candidate Raila Odinga and UDA’s William Ruto.  Olekina said Kenyans were tired of political games and wanted to be shown the right path to follow.  He said Kenyans were ready for a Raila presidency and were not interested in sideshows coming from OKA leaders.  The Narok senator claimed it is the media that has given OKA leaders too much attention, terming them insignificant players in the next polls.  “It is you people giving OKA leaders too much attention, Kenyans are tired and want to be shown the right path,” he said.  He said the Azimio la Umoja team has the people on their side and alternative political leaders should the OKA principals back their opponents or choose to go it alone.  He downplayed the influence of OKA principals led by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Mudavadi, Gideon Moi (KANU) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) saying Raila will find his way out.  “Like in Ukambani we have Governors [Charity] Ngilu, [Kivutha] Kibwana and [Alfred] Mutua, so don’t give them too much credit,” he said.  Mudavadi has told his supporters to brace for a major announcement, that he describes as a political thunderstorm that could change the country’s political landscape.  With Kalonzo insisting that his name will be on the ballot come August 9, Kenyans are curious to know Mudavadi’s options which could be to work with DP Ruto, team up with Raila or go it alone.  Mudavadi will also have to deal with ANC bleeding in the Western region where a host of ANC MPs have thrown their weight behind Raila’s Azimio la Umoja movement.  Kalonzo faces the same fate back at home with three governors from the region rooting for Azimio la Umoja Movement.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 8 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 16 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 19 hours ago