Goat and sheep's hoof prints are seen in the drying mud after rainfall and cold weather, near North Horr, Marsabit county, Kenya, January 21, 2022. [Reuters, Baz Ratner]  The country is expected to experience dry and sunny weather this week. In predictions released yesterday, the weatherman however noted a possibility of occasional showers over a few areas in the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the South Rift Valley, the South-Eastern lowlands and the South Coast.  “Strong north-easterly winds with speeds exceeding 25 knots (12.9 m/s) are expected over some parts of the Coast,” stated Stella Aura, Director, Kenya Meteorological Department.   The forecast for between January 25 to January 31 showed that most parts of the country are likely to be sunny and dry.  There is, however, a possibility of occasional showers over a few areas in the highlands West of the Rift Valley, the South Rift Valley, the South-eastern lowlands and the South Coast. Last week, the weatherman warned that the country would experience heavy rains and storms in some areas from January 17–24.    In the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the Lake Victoria Basin and the Central and South Rift Valley, days are likely to be generally sunny and nights partly cloudy. Maximum temperatures are likely to range from 22 Degrees Celcius to 31 Degrees Celcius while minimum temperatures are expected to be between 08 Degrees Celcius and 20 Degrees Celcius.  In North-western Kenya, maximum temperatures are likely to range from 26 Degrees Celcius to 36 Degrees Celcius while minimum temperatures are expected to be between 10Degrees Celcius and 22 Degrees Celcius.  In the highlands East of the Rift Valley, maximum temperatures are likely to range from 20 Degrees Celcius to 29Degrees Celcius while minimum temperatures are expected to be between 05 Degrees Celcius and 17 Degrees Celcius.  In North-eastern Kenya, maximum temperatures are likely to range from 25 Degrees Celcius to 37 Degrees Celcius while minimum temperatures are expected to be between 16 Degrees Celcius and 26 Degrees Celcius.  In the South-eastern lowlands and the Coast, there is a likelihood of occasional morning rains as well as afternoon and night showers occurring over a few places during the second half of the forecast period.  A comparison between the previous Kenya Meteorological Department review period (10-16 January 2022) and between January 17 to January 23 indicated an increase in rainfall amounts over most parts of the country particularly the highlands East of the Rift Valley, North-western and North-eastern Kenya.  Buna in Wajir recorded the highest amount of rainfall that pounded the country last week.  The Kenya Meteorological Department said Buna registered the highest amount of rainfall within 24 hours, measuring 107.0 mm on January 22.  A report released by the department named Marsabit (89.8 mm), Gurar (58.7), and Kangema (51.8) as other stations that recorded “very heavy rainfall” of more than 50 mm within 24 hours.  The prediction is evidence of shifting weather patterns compared to last week Weather Review for 17 January - 23 January which many parts  of the country experienced light to moderate rainfall.     By Wilberforce Okwiri | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 6 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 6 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 6 hours ago