Former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya. [File, Standard]  Mohamed Ahmed Maalim has been transferred from Makueni to replace George Natembeya as Rift Valley Regional Commissioner.  Maalim was the County Commissioner for Makueni County.  The transfer comes after Natembeya announced his resignation on Wednesday as he steps out to focus on politics.  He will be contesting for the Trans Nzoia governorship. Gilbert Kitiyo Benjamin from Mombasa takes over as the Makueni County Commissioner.  Natembeya has been re-deployed to the Nairobi Headquarters.  “I am on my way to Nakuru and will be meeting Natembeya at 11am today so that he hands over to me,” Maalim said when reached for comment.  In the same changes, William Kangethe Thuku has been moved from Headquarters to take over as the Nairobi Regional Commissioner, Isaiah Aregai moves from Eastern to the Western region while Esther Wamuyu Maina moves from Western to Central region.  James Kyalo Kianda has been moved from Nairobi to the North-Eastern region while Evans Mong'are Achoki who has been serving as the Narok County Commissioner has been moved to the Eastern region, Wilfred Agage Nyanwanga and Nichodemus Ndalana have been redeployed to the Nairobi Headquarters from Central and North Eastern regions respectively.  In a statement from Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, the transfers take effect immediately.  Kibicho said several County Commissioners have also been moved.  Rhoda Nyaboke Onyancha has been moved to Machakos from Taita Taveta, Abdulla Galgalo Hiddi from Embu to Nyeri, John Otieno Ondego from Machakos to Kakamega and Loyford Ephuntus Kibaara from Nyeri to Taita Taveta County.  Abdirisack Jaldesa has been moved from Samburu to Baringo County, Ahamed Omar Ahmed from Elgeyo Marakwet to Busia, Henry Orawo Wafula from Baringo to Samburu, Pauline Anyango Dola from Kakamega to Nyanza while Jesse Ochillo Oyugi has been redeployed to the Nairobi headquarters from Vihiga County.  John Odhiambo Otieno who was the Senior Deputy County Commissioner in Samburu County has been moved to Vihiga while Eddyson Haro Nyale and Isaac Wanyonyi Masinde, who were Senior Deputy Secretaries at the OOP Headquarters, have been moved to Embu and Narok respectively.  [Additional reporting by Stephen Nzioka]  By Julius Chepkwony | 50 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By David Gichuru and Fred Kagonye | 4 hours ago Uhuru dilemma as half Cabinet set to quit to vie for political positions