Amani National Congress (ANC) yesterday said ODM leader Raila Odinga is not welcome on its big day this Sunday.  Musalia Mudavadi’s party said Raila is a competitor hence cannot attend its National Delegates Conference (NDC).   “We have invited OKA principals. I have not seen any invitation for Raila. Neither have I seen one for Jubilee. Why would we invite our competitors when we are launching our bid for presidency? To come and do what?” Posed ANC Secretary General Simon Gikuru.  The party secretariat began sending out invitation cards to leaders for the NDC, where Mudavadi is expected to make an “earth-shaking” announcement on the political direction the party will take.   Gikuru yesterday said invitations have been drawn up and are being sent out for the event to be held at the Bomas of Kenya. He was non-committal on the invitation of Deputy President William Ruto, who is associated with United Democratic Alliance (UDA). But Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, who has been touted as a possible bridge between Mudavadi and Ruto said: “We are only inviting our friends not competitors. Ruto is our friend but still our competitor. We have not invited him.”  Gikuru said they had invited OKA principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi of Kanu and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula, diplomats and the media. He urged the country to brace for the coming “earthquake” on Sunday. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo are among leaders invited.  “Thank you for the invite,” posted Muturi on Twitter. ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka said they will skip the NDC.  “I will not be party to the NDC’s misguided resolution. I have already made up my mind to support Raila and Azimio La Umoja,” Savula said.   He said Mudavadi has three options: “He may decide to go it alone all the way, work with Raila or join forces with Ruto. He should make the right decision because a slight mistake could condemn him into oblivion.”  Matungu MP Peter Nabulindo said he would be at Bomas for the NDC, despite having jumped ship to Azimio La Umoja. “I will attend the NDC on Sunday and inform Mudavadi that the people of Matungu want to join Azimio La Umoja,” said Nabulindo.  The meeting is key at this point of alliance building as the ANC top organ is expected to allow the flag bearer to join a coalition with either Raila or Ruto or continue with OKA.  By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago Lawyers: President Uhuru Kenyatta did not initiate Building Bridges drive