Deputy President William Ruto addresses Kinoo residents, Kikuyu. [George Njunge, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has said that Kenyans should be allowed to elect candidates of choice without intimidation.  Dr Ruto said Kenyans had come of age and should not be arm-twisted or coerced into choosing anyone in the forthcoming polls.  “We are a democratic nation and therefore all Kenyans should be allowed to make a political choice without being forced or being arm-twisted,” he said.   Addressing residents of Limuru Constituency yesterday after attending service at St Andrew Rironi Catholic Church, the DP said the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has become a formidable force following its pact with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula.  “UDA is now a massive force that will not be easy to break after so many Kenyans and leaders across the nation joining the party,” Ruto said.  Ruto defended his regular donations to churches, saying it’s an instruction from God.  “At times we are fought because of our generosity by people who do not give; we however know that those that give receive and are blessed more then those who receive,” he said  Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua who accompanied the DP urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to lift the ban on scrap metals saying it has affected credible dealers in the business.  “The president should look at the ban again, many children are educated by scrap metal dealers across the country more so here in Central, the total ban has left many households without anything to eat whatsoever,” Rigathi said.  He further said that not all scrap metal dealers would want to see public infrastructure vandalised like the rail way line, road signage and electricity pylons.  This comes barely a fortnight ago after vandals suspected to be scrap metal dealers plunged the whole nation in darkness after vandalizing main electricity pylons in Nairobi.  Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki told residents at Kwambira market that Uhuru should have left office without endorsing a successor.  “Kibaki served before Uhuru, he finished his term and went home without trying to show or direct Kenyans to anyone, am appealing to Uhuru to follow suit,” Kindiki said  Ruto was also accompanied by MPs Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Githua Macukuru (Kabete) and Njuguna Wanjiku (Kiambaa), Kiambu Senate aspirant Karungo Thangwa and former Governor Ferdinard Waititu.   By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane and Jane Mugambi | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 14 hours ago