Kirinyaga Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici (inset) rebrands her campaign vehicles days after removing UDA colours. [Timothy Kariuki, Standard]  Kirinyaga Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici on Sunday rebranded his campaign vehicles 12 days after removing United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party colours.  The campaign vehicles which had the yellow and green colours associated with Deputy President William Ruto-led party have been painted in pink and blue colours    The Kirinyaga Governor seat aspirant who has said she will run as an Independent candidate had removed the UDA colours from her campaign vehicles and Kerugoya town offices.  Ngirici had earlier slammed MPs allied to UDA over continued insults and chest-thumping during their campaign tours saying the intolerance will cost Ruto the presidency. Speaking after meeting women in Ndia constituency the Woman Rep said Ruto will be in for a rude shock if he continues to allow his allies to disrespect other leaders not willing to join his party.  The County MP accused Ruto of double standards and disrespect to Mt Kenya political parties and their leaders.  “In Mt Kenya region, he dismisses political parties as village outfits while in other regions, he is embracing other parties and ready to work with them,” she said.   She said the so-called village parties in Mt Kenya region will produce the majority of MPs, Senators, MCAs and Governors.  On the political party amendments bill, Wangui has called on the Senators to rally behind the bill which she said will go a long way in streamlining political parties and coalition’s management in the country.  Ngirici ditched UDA after accusing its leadership of favouring her main challenger Governor Anne Waiguru.  “The ‘party owners’ called me to Nairobi where they told me to vie for the Mwea parliamentary seat and shelve my gubernatorial ambitions in favour of Governor Waiguru,” she said.  Ngirici said that she will be moving from one village to another telling voters that it is the individual that matters and not the political party that matters  “Some of my competitors have already used millions to buy nominations certificates, but I have decided that I will not donate anything to the party but will instead use that money to better the lives of my constituents,” she said.  Ngirici said her political future and that of Kirinyaga residents will not be determined by a few individuals but will be determined by the voters at the ballot.  By Anthony Gitonga and Kennedy Gachuhi | 11 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 6 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 15 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 17 hours ago