Deputy President William Ruto addresses residents of Kibera during a campaign rally on January 18, 2022, at Kibera DC ground in Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has called on the youths to register as voters reminding them that it’s their patriotic duty to participate in making the next government.  Ruto who addressed rallies in Karen, Kibra and Dagoretti in Nairobi on Tuesday said youths can only elect the right leaders if they register as voters.  “Our single most patriotic duty is to have a voters card. I ask the youth to vote for right leaders, right politics and the right government that will address their needs and aspirations. It is you to decide, and you cannot decide without a voters card. Register as a voter now!,” he said.   The DP enumerated Jubilee government development projects and asked the residents to support his bid for the presidency.  He hit out at the government over what he said is an attempt to impose a president to the people.  “We have brains, we can choose for ourselves. You can’t choose for us,” said the DP.  “Will we vote for a project selected by people in a hotel or are you going to select your own preferred candidate?”He posed.  Ruto took a swipe at President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga saying that while he is geared to revitalise the economy, proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative want to, “increase power for the presidency and increase the number of state officers.”  The DP maintained that he will not be threatened by violence and accused his competitors of being behind chaos witnessed in his rallies.  Ruto outlined his vision for small scale traders when he addressed rallies at the DC Grounds, Kenyatta Market and Toi Market in the Kibra constituency.  He was accompanied by MPs Nixon_Korir (Lang’ata), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South.), Kimani Ichungwah (Kikuyu) and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga.  Others were EALA legislator Simon Mbugua, MPs Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), George Theuri (Embakasi West), Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Governor aspirants Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, (Nairobi), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) and several UDA party aspirants.  By Kamau Muthoni | 9 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 9 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 12 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 13 hours ago Judge saves Wanjigi after magistrate orders arrest