Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju with other elected leaders and political aspirants during a consultative meeting on joint party primaries. [James Omoro, Standard]  The Jubilee and ODM parties are expected to conduct joint party primaries ahead of the August 9 general election.  On Saturday, Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the two parties and other partners under the Azimio la Umoja Movement will field one candidate for every elective position.  Tuju spoke at a hotel in Kabondo Kasipul Constituency when he and ODM Elections Board Chairperson Catherine Muma convened a meeting with aspirants in Homa Bay County.   He said they are currently working on rules which will govern the process of nominating aspirants who will carry the Azimio tickets for the August contest.  "I am not speaking on behalf of the Azimio la Umoja Movement but it is a fact that we are working on rules which will govern the nomination process. The main plan is to ensure we field one candidate as a coalition in every elective seat," Tuju said.  He said the process will begin by all political parties presenting lists of their aspirants before they are subjected to the nomination.  Based on the rules being formulated, the coalition will conduct nominations to enable it get one candidate for each elective post.  The Secretary General said the coalition will conduct nominations freely and fairly.  "Our nominations will be free and fair. This means the nomination certificate will be awarded to candidates whose popularity is strong," Tuju added.  The position was also supported by Muma who said fairness and transparency must be observed in the coalition primaries.  The leaders told all aspirants and elected leaders to focus their energy on mobilising residents to register as voters.  "We want all aspirants to focus on voter registration so that we can meet targets during the ongoing voter registration," said Tuju.  Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo, her Kabondo Kasipul counterpart Eve Obar and the Chairman of Lake Basin Development Authority Odoyo Owidi said they will work hand in hand with other elected leaders to mobilise voter registration through resource allocation.  "We are in talks as elected leader in this county to ensure concerted efforts in mobilizing residents to register as voters," said Dr Gogo.  Owidi said they had come up with a gratification strategy in which anybody who registers as a voter is rewarded with Sh200.  “We want as many people to register as possible. In Kasipul, just register as a voter and I will give Sh200,” Owidi said.  The meeting was also attended by former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga who are eyeing Homa Bay gubernatorial seat.  Other attendants were aspirants for MCA and MP positions.  By Harold Odhiambo | 4 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo and Harold Odhiambo | 12 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago