Current Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko.  Six youthful aspirants are seeking to succeed Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko who is eyeing the governorship.  Ayacko took over in a by-election following the death of the then area senator Ben Oluoch Okello, who died on June 19, 2018.  Some of the seven senior politicians who expressed interest in the senatorial seat during the by-election, alongside Ayacko, have now shifted focus to the county chief's position, held by Okoth Obado who is serving his final term, and have started campaigns in earnest.   Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, former Migori MP John Pesa, Migori Kuppet executive secretary Orwa Jasolo, former Migori Kuppet chairman Kennedy Makasembo, Mr George Maando, and Mr Solomon Hodo had also hoped to take over after the death of Oluoch.   The youthful aspirants eyeing the senator seat are below 40 but without any past experience in politics. Some have taken their campaigns to social media.  "I have not been elected anywhere before. I am counting on my professional experience which I believe will help me perform the oversight role as a senator," said 30-year-old Victor Okuna.  He added: "Senior politicians are battling it out for the governorship while female aspirants are seeking to woman representative seat. Maybe the senatorial seat should be reserved for the youth, for the sake of fairness."  Another aspirant, Kenneth Okech, called on ODM to ensure free and fair nominations.  The 33-year-old hails from Kanyasa Ward in Nyatike Constituency. "The youth will resist any attempt by ODM to pick candidates through consensus," said Okech.  He added: "We want the next senator of Migori to be a young person. We don't want the seat to be a fallback plan for senior politicians who will fail to clinch the governor's seat.”  Other aspirants who have shown interest in the senatorial seat are advocates Misare Njaga,31, Holly Okwama,38, and businessman Philip Bunde.  Eddy Oketch, who vied for the seat twice and was floored Okello and by Ayacko in the subsequent by-election, announced he will also be in the race.  Eddy has been leading high-profile campaigns including using helicopters. He vied as an independent candidate in 2017 and jumped ship to the Federal Party of Kenya (FPK) during the by-election after missing the ODM ticket.  By Edwin Nyarangi | 1 hour ago By James Omoro | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 6 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 1 day ago