Chapati served with honey-glazed chicken and vegetable stew. [David Gichuru, Standard]  Mugoiri Girls High School is in a spot after allegedly suspending a student for getting a second helping of a special meal of chicken stew and chapati.  This is after Children Rights lawyer Ndungu Nyoro, posted the case on his social media platforms where he claimed the school suspended 17 students and directed each of them to pay a fine of Sh10,550 upon their return to the institution.  School principal Susan Mundia has denied this claim saying only one student was suspended.  Mundia downplayed the matter saying it was an internal affair that was geared towards instilling discipline in the learners, as per the institution's rules and regulations. According to the social media post, the school administration sent a student home for six days from January 19 to January 25 and indicated they be accompanied by their parents when they return.  The principal told the Standard on Sunday in this particular case the situation was resolved between the school and the parent.  “We instill discipline in our children and in this case when she went for the second helping others missed the special meal prepared by the school. The fine has been part of Mugoiri Girls rules and regulations to discourage others from the habit,” Mundia said.  The suspension letter stated in part ".......has been sent home with effect from January 19 to January 25, for the following offenses which are contrary to school rules and regulations."  Two offences; 'Taking two servings of the special meal offered on Sunday 16/1/22, and 'made students to miss their food'', are listed in the letter.  "You are requested to accompany her back to school on January 25 to meet the school disciplinary committee, and pay Sh10,500 to cater for the special meal for the whole school," The letter concluded.  A senior education official at the County education office said they are not aware of the suspension of the learners over a meal.  By Kamore Maina | 1 day ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago