Nairobi is among regions to receive more than 50mm of rainfall. [David Gichuru, Standard]  Brace for heavy rains and isolated storms this week, the Meteorological Department has warned.  In a report released yesterday, the Meteorological Department Director Stella Aura indicated that heavy rains are expected in several parts of the country this week with the likelihood of isolated storms.  The report shows that some regions including Nairobi are likely to receive more than 50mm of rainfall.  Ms Aura indicated that rainfall is expected in most parts of the country with increased intensity in Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa, Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu, Isiolo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Laikipia, Meru, Nyandarua, Nairobi, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Embu, Nakuru, and Kericho. In Northwestern Kenya, in parts of Turkana and Samburu counties, morning rains, as well as afternoon and night showers and thunderstorms, are likely to occur.  Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, and Isiolo counties are expected to receive rains in the morning as well as afternoon and night showers.  Maximum daytime temperatures are likely to range from 27 degress Celsius to 37 degrees Celsius while minimum nighttime temperatures are expected to be between 17 Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius.  In the southern eastern lowlands of Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, Kajiado, and Taita Taveta, morning rains, as well as afternoon and night showers, are expected over a few places during the first half of the forecast period.  Maximum daytime temperatures are likely to range from 24 degrees Celsius to 32 degrees Celsius, nighttime temperatures are expected to be between 11 degrees Celsius to 21 Degrees Celsius.  In the Coast region, days are likely to be generally sunny and nights partly cloudy, however, there is a likelihood of occasional afternoon and night showers occurring over a few places.  Maximum daytime temperatures are likely to range from 30 degrees Celsius to 33 degrees Celsius while minimum nighttime temperatures are expected to be between 22 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius.    By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Jacqueline Mahugu | 1 hour ago By Nderitu Gichure | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago