Pokot South MP David Pkosing, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo and ODM leader Raila Odinga in Kapenguria on November 22, 2021 [File, Standard]  Once a close ally of the Deputy President William Ruto, Pokot South MP David Pkosing has said he fell out with the DP for constricting the political space across the country.  Mr Pkosing, a Deputy Party leader of the Kenya Union Party (KUP) said that Ruto’s resistance to work with small parties broke their political relationship.   “We as Pokot community, through our National Party, the Kenya Union Party (KUP) joined Azimio la Umoja because we are a party, and Azimio is ready for a coalition with other parties,” said Pkosing said in an interview with The Standard.  He said together with West Pokot governor Prof John Lonyangapuo, who is KUP party leader, they had decided to work with Raila because they had been received positively by Azimio leadership. “For instance, during the national Azimio event held at Kasarani Stadium, Raila responded to issues we presented at Kapenguria positively,  that if he wins the presidency, he will prioritise in his government,” said Pkosing.  The MP noted that among the demands, the Pokot community raised during their Azimio meeting in Kapenguria were for the East Pokot (Tiati) to be made a County.  “Our people also requested that they be given two additional constituencies and five additional wards among other development issues,” said Pkosing.  This, he said, was structured inclusivity and accommodating all communities.  “Attempting to say communities can realise inclusivity by boxing them in one party is not only a lie, but is dictatorship and unconstitutional. I call upon Kenyans of goodwill to embrace structured inclusivity,” said Pkosing.  The MP said that the only viable option, for now, was the one, spearheaded by Raila.  “I wish him success in making all our Kenyan communities fill part of the whole, and that will be proper inclusivity, which will promote peace and economic growth,” said Pkosing.     By Erastus Mulwa | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 4 hours ago Musalia: Was it an earthquake or just a tremor at his feet?