Police were forced to disperse rowdy youths after they attempted to disrupt UDA rally at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East. [Denish Ochieng, Stanbdard]  Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of hiring youths to disrupt United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party rally at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi, Nairobi County.  Rowdy youths had stormed the venue while the rally was underway chanting ODM and Azimio slogans forcing riot police to disperse a section of the crowd.  The rowdy youths shouting the names of Raila and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino Raila’s invaded the ground and engaged the police in running battle for close to an hour before calm was restored.  “We don’t want money, we want Babu,” the rowdy youths were heard chanting before they were dispersed by riot police. While addressing his supporters, DP Ruto claimed the youths were hired by Raila and his allies to scuttle their rally.  "Shame on you [Mr Kitendawili] for hiring these young men to throw stones yet you are enjoying yourself," he said.  The DP said such crude tactics will not stop him from selling his bottom-up economic model to Kenyans ahead of the 2022 General Election.  "I want to tell our competitors who have a history of causing chaos and mobilising youth to throw stones that we will not be intimidated," he declared.  Attempts by The Standard to reach ODM officials and politicians including area MP [Babu] were futile as their phones went unanswered.  Deputy President addresses his supporters at the Jacaranda Grounds after police restored order. [Courtesy]  DP Ruto had attended a church service at PCEA, Pipeline in Embakasi South in the morning, visited a church in Kware before heading to Jacaranda for the rally.  The DP was accompanied by UDA politicians mostly aspirants eyeing various seats under the party ticket in the city.  Ruto has been campaigning in Nairobi County for the past week.  On Thursday, Ruto campaigned at Mwiki, Njiru Shopping Centre, Chokaa Trading Centre and Njiru/Ruai Junction in Kasarani Constituency.  He also visited Zimmerman, TRM and Sunton areas in Kasarani.  By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Mireri Junior and Timothy Kariuki | 5 hours ago