Woman casting her vote at Lesesia polling station in Taveta sub-county, Taita-Taveta. [Renson Mnyamwezi, Standard]  This year might be one of the busiest in the country’s history. With multiple national examinations and a General Election, Kenyans have a lot to look forward to before the end of the year. Before the general election, however, many people vying for different elective posts will have to secure their party tickets through nominations.  Unfortunately, over the years, the party primaries have been marred with allegations of rigging and unfair selection of individuals closest to the party leadership at the expense of the electorate’s preference. It is likely that this year’s nominations will be no different. In fact, some of the defections witnessed in recent days have been motivated by allegations of predetermined ticket holders based on political party leaders’ preferences.  I think any political party leader that unfairly influences the outcome of their party primaries should not have any moral authority to expect free and fair general election. It is hypocritical for party leaders to engage in rigging at the party levels and still have the audacity to call out the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for any perceived irregularities in the way the main poll is conducted. Party primaries should set the pace for how elections should be held. The choice for any party’s flag bearer should be left to the people. Any attempts to impose leaders on wananchi should be frowned upon, whether they emanate from individual political parties or the IEBC.  Besides, feelings of unfair processes at the party level are likely to result in massive defections and independent candidates, potentially weakening political parties, which is counterproductive for a country that seeks a strong multi-party system. Granted, many of the political parties are temporary outfits often hurriedly put together every electioneering period to serve the interests of a few individuals, but strong political parties play a key role in ensuring inclusiveness and overall democracy, allowing the people to not only make informed choices, but also participate in political processes.  The biggest barrier to free and fair party primaries, perhaps, is the fact that our political parties are never based on any concrete ideology, but are treated like the leaders’ personal property and aspiring candidates have to bow to them for consideration. This running of parties like private businesses also means people closest to the leaders unfairly get leadership positions. Party leaders should learn to respect the wishes of the people and allow competitive internal processes that give the electorate the best possible chance at good representation.  As the political parties get ready for nominations, therefore, the electorate should also demand for free and fair nomination processes. They should hold their party leaders accountable. It is only when nominations are fairly conducted that the political leaders can have the right to demand a free and fair process in the main poll. With mangled primaries, it will be difficult to inspire confidence in the General Election.  Dr Kiambati is a communication trainer and consultant, Kenyatta University  By Editorial | 4 hours ago By Editorial | 4 hours ago By Francis Kimemia | 4 hours ago By Ndiritu Muriithi | 4 hours ago Mistrust rocks 'third force' OKA as Ruto, Raila woo principals