Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera issues cheques to parents and guardians at Nyabioto village in Bonchari sub-County on January 5, 2022. [Eric Abuga, Standard]  Leaders will hold talks to settle on the candidate to fly the ODM flag in the governor's race.  Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera said the community needs credible leadership.  “We need individuals who can manage and share resources across all the nine constituencies, people who have been tested,” she said.   Besides Ongera, others who have shown interest in the seat include Senator Sam Ongeri, Dagorreti North MP Simba Arati, Deputy Governor Joash Maangi and CAS Chris Obure.  Others are activist Rachael Otundo, Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu and US-based businessman Chweya Matoke.   Her remarks signal a possible return to boardroom democracy that was witnessed in the county in the 2013 and 2017 General Election. The talks saw ODM win the governor's seat, senator and Woman Rep, as well most seats at the county assembly.  Governor James Ongwae, Obure, Ongera, Ongeri and Maangi played key roles in the talks.  Last month, Deputy Party leader Wycliffe Oparanya expressed concern that aspirants spent a lot of resources during nominations at the expense of the General Election.  "The party has agreed to change the system of conducting primaries. We will not subject aspirants to nominations but either hand pick or use a delegates system to nominate the party's candidates," he said.  Speaking yesterday in Bogiakumu Ward during the disbursement of bursary funds, the Woman Rep named herself, Prof Ongeri, Maangi, Obure and former MPs Manson Nyamweya and Omingo Magara as leaders who can succeed Ongwae.  Magara is the National Treasurer of the Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) while Nyamweya is the Kenya National Congress leader.  “These are individuals that have the credentials to lead this county. Let the electorate weigh on these options. I am ready to support a dependable candidate should our people hold that I don’t have enough votes for now,” Ongera said.  Arati, who has already named former Nyaribari Chache MP Robert Monda as his running mate, and also enjoys the support of Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka.   By Stanley Ongwae | 7 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 18 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 18 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago Chief of staff: Why public and private offices opt for the post