ODM leader Raila Odinga mobbed by his supporters as he arrived at Ololulunga, Narok County for Azimi la Umoja movement rally on January 22, 2022. [Courtesy]  ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday pitched tent in Narok County to drum up support for his Azimio la Umoja movement.  Addressing a rally at Ololulunga, Raila said if elected president on August 9, he will categorise single mothers in special and needy group and ensure the government come up with an empowerment and support programme for them.  Raila said the number of single mothers in the country are on the rise hence the need for the new government to support them and their children.  “The number of single mothers is on the rise due to divorce, death of husbands and some men fleeing from responsibility, I will stand with them if we form government,” he said amid cheers. He also promised to give a monthly stipend of Sh6000 for poor families in a social protection programme meant to empower the poor and eradicate poverty.  Raila said a similar programme has been adopted in the US, in Europe and even in Namibia, adding that it was high time Kenya adopted it to help its citizens.  “We are serious about the social protection programme and I will implement it once we form government,” the former PM said.  He said once his government sustain the war on corruption and seal graft loopholes, funds to implement the programme will be available.  “They claim it is an empty promise, Baba don’t give empty promises to his children, we will seal loopholes use by the corrupt to steal public funds and use the money to implement the programme.”  Raila told Kenyans to shun leaders out divide country through reckless and divisive remarks for political expediency, saying Kenyan belongs to everyone.  “No one is more Kenyan than the other, so if you hear them talk about madoadoa don’t listen to them because Kenya has no moadoa,” he said.  While thanking the Maa community elders for endorsing his State House bid, Raila said he will ensure the community’s heritage and the Mau forest which is vital for their livelihood are preserved for posterity.  Raila pledged to subsidise fertilizer’ prices for farmers should he be elected president on August 9.  “Farmers told me the prices are now over Sh3,500 and wanted a slight reduction to, but I will reduce to less than Sh3000 to make it affordable for local,” he said.  The ODM leader also pledged to ensure revenue from Maasai Mara game park is shared fairly between locals and the national government among other challenges like shortage of water and bad roads.  Raila was accompanied by Maa leaders led by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, Youth Affairs PS Charles Sunkuli, Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta, Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori, Senator Ledama Olekina.  Also present in meeting are Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanju, Raila Odinga campaign board chairman Ndiritu Muriithi, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, ODM director of elections Junet Mohamed among other leaders.  By Special Correspondent | 55 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 55 minutes ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and Robert Kiplagat | 1 hour ago By John Shilitsa | 9 hours ago Do or die race: Battlegrounds to watch in the August 9 polls