MCA's from Kakamega County pose for a photo with ODM leader Raila Odinga who received them at Chungwa House in Nairobi [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday hit out at Deputy President William Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula describing them as birds of a feather who are flocking together.  He dismissed Ruto’s bottom-up economic model and faulted Mudavadi for emphasising on the country’s huge debt and promised to repay it if elected president saying that it was not currently a pressing issue to Kenyans.  “We have policies and they are not bottom up. Debt is something very small. Everybody has a debt including developed nations like America. When we enter the government, we will pay the debt and take another. Kenya’s biggest problem is corruption and poverty and that is what we want to route out,” he said.  He said what the country needs is good policies that are forward looking like Vision 2030 and ODM has the same.   The ODM leader was speaking at Chungwa House in Nairobi yesterday, when he received 16 MCAs who defected from Amani National Congress (ANC), Ford Kenya, and United Democratic Party (UDP).  Raila said the party is open to all as long they become acquainted with its constitution and policies.  “We have good plans to bring change as a party to this country and not just empty promises,” he said.  The MCAs who defected were 10 from ANC, Ford Kenya (3) , UDP (2) and one who was elected as an independent candidate.  Raila said UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya have one thing in common that unites them and the time for reckoning has come.  “Kenyan is not on sale and the citizens cannot be bought by money stolen from them. We will liberate Kenya. We did free ourselves from the colonial regime and power and the third  liberation will be economic freedom of women, youth and elderly will also be happy,” he said.  He announced that Azimio La Umoja will be registered as a movement next week.  Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said ODM is the only party with a national appeal and has presence across the country.  Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said ODM will eradicate politics of blackmail.  By Philip Muasya | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago