MCAs in West Pokot have asked politicians to desist from statements likely to fuel hate among communities.   The ward reps spoke amid renewed attacks along the West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet borders.  The MCAs, at the same time, urged security agencies to be vigilant in parts of the Kerio region where lives have been lost and livestock stolen.  The leaders who spoke to the press outside the county assembly in Kapenguria, called on the national government to mediate peace between the Pokot and Marakwet communities to end perennial conflicts.  They urged the government to encourage dialogue among warring groups. Lomut ward MCA Jacob Toong’ole said: “We are worried over the recent exchange of insults by leaders from neighbouring communities in the North Rift because it will disrupt peace in the region."  The MCAS said they were tired of killings and raids along with the Pokot-Marakwet common border point.  “We also urge the national government to establish police camps at Sokotow, Chesegon and Dira areas,” said Mr Toongole.  Masol MCA Ariong’o Lopurena called on the government to ensure calm prevails in volatile regions.  “The government should take action on perpetrators of insecurity. Peace is a collective responsibility and all residents should be involved in initiatives aimed at bringing peace along the border,” he said.  Lopurena blamed the government for failing to provide security to residents.  “We are losing our people at the hands of criminals yet the government is yet to respond. This is wrong. We want the government to tell us why it cannot offer lasting security,” said Lopurena.  Nominated MCA Josephine Cheprum said they were saddened by the loss of lives and destruction of property along the volatile border. She said the national government and international community had not done enough to save the situation.   She urged the government to end insecurity and restore peace ahead of the General Election.  “We are disappointed by the government's silence despite conflict in the region. People are still dying along the Marakwet-Pokot border yet authorities are silent. More should be done to save lives and property," she said.   By Kenneth Gachuhi and Nikko Tanui | 7 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 13 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 19 hours ago Raila's big show in Thika stirs up Mt Kenya region