Director Directorate of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti when he appeared before the Departmental Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations at Parliament. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Seventy-three senior DCI officers have been transferred in the latest announcement made by director George Kinoti.  Those affected by the transfer are drawn from the ranks of inspector and chief inspector.  In a memo dated January 18, Kinoti said the officers who have been deployed to the DCI headquarters should report on before January 20 without fail.  “The rest of the officers should report to their new station on or before January 28. Ensure proper handling and taking over is done, confirm departure and arrival,” Kinoti said in the memo. Geoffrey Kinyua who was transferred to Central Regional head of Investigations office and Kigumo head of DCI Stephen Khamisi who was moved back to his former base at the Anti-Terror Police Unit are among those who have been deployed to the DCI headquarters.  The Kenya Revenue Authority has received more officers in the changes amid efforts to boost investigations.  Nyamira, Kisumu, Kerugoya, Kakamega, Embu, Machakos, Nyeri and Siaya counties are among areas that received new postings.  Some of the new DCI commanders include Ruto Kipchumba (Kigumo), David Simiyu (Nzau Emali), Augustine Mutembei (Dandora), John Lelei (North Igembe), David Kirui (Rachuonyo South), Norman Mugogo (Bomet East), Mohamed Adan (Nandi Central) and Samuel Kibor (Koibatek).  Others include Ken Ogutu (Mashuuru), George Masayi (Nyatike), Reuben Byegon (Uriri), Doglas Isaboke (Emuhaya), Ken Makana (Kehancha), John Kimani (Kasarani), Boniface Mulee (Marsabit South), Evans Wesonga (Marani) and Ken Mwongera (Kajiado Central).  Kinoti said the transfers are seeking to enhance the capacity of the service in the wake of increased crime incidents and equipping of the Forensic Laboratory.  By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 6 hours ago By Emmanuel Too | 7 hours ago By  Nzau Musau | 7 hours ago Judge saves Wanjigi after magistrate orders arrest