ODM leader Raila Odinga with Governor Lee Kinyanjui at Soko Mjinga in Nakuru County. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga have dismissed the new-found unity between Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi.  The leaders who had accompanied Raila to Nakuru accused Ruto and Mudavadi of being dishonest.  National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed said: “There was no earthquake around Bomas. Ruto had said he doesn’t want coalitions but has today changed tune. I have heard Mudavadi say Uhuru’s government has not done anything yet he recently said otherwise.”    Junet said the coming together of the two leaders was a betrayal of their partners in UDA and One Kenya Alliance (OKA).  “They have revealed who they truly are by turning their backs on their partners. As ODM we are very happy. They were accusing us of destroying Jubilee. They have today destroyed OKA. They were claiming to be in OKA during the day and at night dining with Ruto,” he added.  Kieni MP Kanini Kega said the pact was between people who have a tainted history.  Raila drummed up support for Azimio la Umoja Movement and promised to unite the country, transform education and industrial sectors and boost the economy.  “How good it is when people live together in peace and unity? This is what Azimio La Umoja stands for. We don’t want people calling others madoadoa (spots). All have a right to live anywhere in Kenya,” he said.  The ODM leader pledged to ensure equitable distribution of resources by investing in industries across the country based on the economic mainstay of various regions.  “We have had two revolutions- the fight for independence and changing the Constitution. It is now time for economic revolution. We shall continue with the infrastructural investments initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta to open up the country,” he said.  Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi urged Nakuru residents to back Raila saying that he was the only person who can be trusted with the country and its resources.  “There is a man who was a Cabinet minister in the grand coalition government and was expelled. He now wants to be president. You know what to do with that information,” said Ndiritu.  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi launched his presidential bid on January 23, 2022. [File, Standard]  “There is hope for this country and it is my strong belief that the person ordained for prosperity, unity, and peace and Kenyan presidency is Raila,” he added.   Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the coming election will be a defining moment for the country and urged residents not to gamble with their vote.  “I don’t want us to get to September and you will be blaming me for not taking you to the winning side. We want someone who will chart the path we wish for ourselves,” said Kinyanjui.  He called on the residents to vote for leaders based on their scorecard and integrity.  “It is not all about electing a candidate because of what they have promised. Also, interrogate them and their intentions,” said Kinyanjui.  Jubilee Nominated MP Maina Kamanda urged residents to reject leaders who thrive on intimidation and fear-mongering.  Former Njoro MP Joseph Kiuna noted that Raila was the only leader whom the county can trust to unite communities in the cosmopolitan county and nationally.  Former Molo MP Njenga Mungai said President Uhuru Kenyatta had shown the region the right direction to follow in the coming polls.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 54 minutes ago By Erastus Mulwa | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago Musalia: Was it an earthquake or just a tremor at his feet?