United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has directed its coordinators at the grassroots seeking elective positions to resign and allow others to serve.  The Deputy President William Ruto's party, through a notice today, called on its county, constituency, ward and polling centre coordinators seeking to contest in the upcoming August General Election to step down in favour of non-aspirants who wish to serve the party.  “Following communication on the expansion of UDA grassroots coordination team; the United Democratic Alliance hereby gives notice to all our county, constituency, ward and polling centre coordinators intending to contest for any elective position to relinquish their current party positions to give way for non-aspirants to serve,” stated party Secretary General Veronica Maina.  “This notice takes effect from January 18, 2022. We appreciate your contributions thus far, hope to engage more in the near future and wish you all the best in your political aspirations,” read the notice.  The development comes at a time when the party is implementing key changes as it revamps ahead of the vigorous campaign season with less than seven months to the polls. Last month, the party announced changes to its national leadership that saw a reshuffle of the top brass and appointment of new officials.  It also comes at a time when the party is seeking to stem continued disruption of its rallies in what it has termed "state sponsored violence".  On Tuesday, UDA accused the government of failing to act against perpetrators of campaign violence.  In a letter to President Kenyatta and copied to the African Union Commission, the European Union and the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC), UDA accused security agencies of turning a blind eye to violence in rallies.  The letter, signed by UDA Chairman Johnstone Muthama and Secretary General Veronica Maina, was also addressed to Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai, National Intelligence Services Director-General Philip Kamweru, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Samuel Kobia and Independence Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati.  The letter is also copied to the US ambassador and the British High Commissioner. Muthama and Maina cite the chaos witnessed on Sunday at UDA’s Jacaranda rally in Embakasi East constituency, Nairobi, claiming they were sponsored by ODM.  At the same time, the DP is scheduled to visit Machakos in a whistle-stop campaign tour that will take him to Donyo Sambuk, Tala Kanngundo, Kivani market and Kakuyuni.  Later in the afternoon, Ruto will visit Kathiani, Mitamboni and Joska market.  Earlier, he was to campaign in Athi River but this has been rescheduled.  Ruto is returning to Machakos barely a week after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka held a high level meeting in his Yatta home where he declared that he would not step down in favour of anyone.  The DP was last in Machakos on December 2 last year.    By Moses Nyamori | 13 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 14 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 1 day ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 1 day ago Judge saves Wanjigi after magistrate orders arrest