Baringo senator Gideon Moi addressing residents of Lomoiywet in Mochongoi, Baringo south during a peace meeting on January 15, 2022, following the killing of one person in the area. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]     A trader was killed and his motorcycle torched on Friday by armed herders in Lomoiywet, Muchongoi, Baringo County.  At least 220 households were displaced and nine schools affected after the herders raided the area.  Learning was affected in Kapkechir primary and secondary, Tuiyotich primary and secondary, Karne Primary and secondary, Kasiela primary and Sinoni primary and secondary schools.   Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday visited the area and held meetings with local leaders.  He promised the residents that he will engage the government and ensure that police reservist are recruited and a police post constructed in the area.  He said he was there to find a lasting solution to insecurity in the area.  “I came here to find a solution, we need NPR and a police post.  “I will deal with the issue. The barbarian act by the herders will be dealt with,” Gideon said.  He thanked the security team for protecting lives, animals and property.  Gideon said he will communicate with Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi to have the issue of reservists addressed.  “We know the CS values human life and will adhere to our request,” he added.  Governor Stanley Kiptis, Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren, Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot and MCAs were present.  Muchongoi Assistant County Commissioner Robert Kiti said a contingent of security personnel had been deployed to flush out the herders.  The police engaged the herders in a gunfight for a better part of the day.  Youths armed with bows and arrows fought on the side of the police.  Mark Kwonyike, brother to Stephen Kwonyike who was killed, said his brother was in the area to access pasture conditions as he was planning to take his cows to graze.  Kwonyike said his brother owned a five-acre parcel of land in the area where he wanted to take the cows.  “My brother was planning to have his cows graze on the five-acre piece of land and had come to inspect the conditions but was killed,” said Kwonyike.  Lina Morogei, a mother of three whom Sunday Standard caught up with, said the armed herders struck while she was herding her cows.  Governor Kiptis urged leaders to talk about life and insecurity, and not just politics, adding the government should flush out the bandits and forcefully disarm them.  The Woman Rep said the insecurity problem in the area had been politicised.   MP Kamuren said they have been pleading with the government to bring NPR and he failed to understand why it was taking long.  By Gilbert Kimutai | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 2 days ago By Antony Gitonga | 2 days ago By Obare Osinde | 2 days ago