Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti addresses faithful at New East Africa Church in Ngelani, Machakos Town constituency on January 30, 2022. She urged voters to reject leaders who incite Kenyans to violence. [Erastus Mulwa, Standard]  Transport Chief Administrative Secretary Wavinya Ndeti has called for political tolerance as the country gears up for the August 9 General election.  Addressing the faithful during a worship service at New East Africa Church Ngelani in Machakos Town constituency on Sunday, Wavinya urged Kenyans to embrace peace during political campaigns and reject politicians who incite members of the public to violence.  "As Kenyans, we need to be tolerant with each other despite our divergent political views and inclinations. We should say no to political violence and reject leaders who incite people against their perceived opponents," said the former Kathiani MP.  In an apparent reference to Saturday's One Kenya Alliance (OKA) rally in Machakos town where a section of rowdy youths interrupted and shouted down some leaders, the CAS said political violence was toxic to the peaceful, free and fair election process. A day before, a group of rowdy youths stoned her motorcade at Kyumvi junction as she led a voter sensitisation caravan in Machakos Town and Mavoko constituencies.  "Merchants of electoral violence must be called out and reminded that the country is more important than political positions," she said.  Wavinya, who is eyeing Machakos gubernatorial seat in the forthcoming General Election pledged to transform the county's healthcare sector if elected to office.  "I know the poor state of our health facilities and services, and one of my priorities will be to fix the mess in our public health facilities," she said.  On matters of food security, the CAS urged both county and national governments to come up with urgent mitigation measures to address the likely food shortage arising from massive crop failure due to depressed rainfall.  By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane and Jane Mugambi | 3 hours ago By George Njunge | 10 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago