Deputy President William Ruto with President Uhuru Kenyatta on the campaign trail in Nairobi, September 2017. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Looks, dress and character are some of the salient features we tend to overlook and ultimately assume rarely count in the choice of our political leaders.  Yet it is important to note that physical appearance, or the outside looks of candidates running for elective office matter most in political campaigns and outcomes.  By physical appearance, I do not mean beauty or physical attractiveness, but perceived physical decor competence that can be a source of such electoral advantage. Well-groomed, alert, bold and good-looking candidates tend to win more votes around the world.  As such, many political leaders go the extra mile to ensure they portray the best image in the public as well as in their daily endeavors. On the other hand, voters may judge candidates by their personal characteristics like compassion, honesty, competence, morality, and leadership ability of the candidates.  Curiously, dress has become an imperative vehicle through which power may be defined, sustained, negotiated or even reinforced. Allman’s work on fashioning Africa: power and the politics of dress shows ways in which power is represented, constituted, articulated, and contested through dress in Africa.  From this book, we learn that dress is an expression of identity since dress is a readily accessible, visible, and easily changeable indicator of an individual identity, character, and status and this can facilitate the assertion of identity and power.   For politicians and other notable personalities, a sense of fashion plays a crucial role in how people view them. Many ensure that everything is to the point, from the clothes' designs, hairstyle as well as accessories such as jewelry, shoes and ties.  Shake hands  Barack Obama, for example, displayed the greatest blend of physique and manner of dress in a way that crowds would even desire not only to see him speak to them but also touch and shake hands with him.   Obama not only became one of the most highly regarded politicians in world history, but also the best-dressed American president in a generation.  Obama was acutely aware not only how and when to wear a suit but also if he wore it well. During his campaigns, he would be seen in casual jeans and T-shirts, but in office, he would obligatorily wear those clothes that evoke elegant image with honour flavour. His favourite colours were the dark suits and white shirts combined with tie.  In our case here, the once youthful duo, Uhuru and Ruto, captured the imaginations of Kenyans through their trendy dressing styles.  For them, 2007 was a dawn of an era when they made their election credo to resonate around what they termed as a struggle between ‘old and new’.… like twins, they coded to the public that they were a team.  They created enthusiasm on social media with images of two young men in their dress code; including ties, white shirts, and no coats. This was interpreted as a sign of a hard-working pair.  Uhuru and Ruto thus were sending powerful messages to the nation that they were united in hard work.  While inspiring Kenyans, the "youthful" digital couple wore uniform clothes and were defined in modern terms.   Daniel arap Moi, too, was always acutely aware of how he looked and appeared in public, or presented himself decently before the public and he was well-known for his fine taste of fashion.  He stood in public donning trendy shoes, suits and ties that stood out.  It was rumoured that Moi had enlisted foreign designers to work on his suits and colourful ties. This uniqueness made people to obviously view him above his contemporaries.   Consequently, he developed inner confidence that he, in turn, solidified his grip on power, thus provoking wide responses of awe and deep fear in equal measure. He oozed power and those near him could feel it.  To some, he was not just a mere president, but one who quickly assumed the status of a deity.  He taught many politicians the importance of good grooming. His (rungu) popularly known as “fimbo ya nyayo’’ was his baton of authority.  Legal language  Our main presidential aspirants, particularly Raila and Ruto should by now realise that Kenyan voters tend to create certain mental images of particular candidates they would prefer to lead them.  These perceptions are important because they influence patterns and outcomes of voting.  Unlike in the past, Kenyans are no longer looking for provisions of ritual and ethnic comforts from these candidates. One important aspect of personal character they are constantly searching is the perceived honesty and trustworthiness of the candidates-what might be termed in our legal language as integrity-and this can easily be detected from the way the candidates behave speak and dress.  Voters are looking for those candidates who are fashion disciplined. Those who provide a particular dressing code as their signature.   By Arole Nicholas Louis | 1 hour ago By Mukurima Muriuki | 3 hours ago By Mark Oloo | 5 hours ago By Khalid Ali | 12 hours ago