Abdirahim Adow Abdulahi was reported missing on Thursday after his family couldn't trace his whereabouts. [Christopher Kipsang, Standard]  A family from Wajir is seeking justice after their kin attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) was found murdered and his body dumped near Kolol viewpoint, along the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties.  Relatives who thronged the Iten County Referral Morgue, where the body of DCI officer Abdirahim Adow Abdulahi is being preserved, were overwhelmed by emotions as they struggled to come to terms with the death.  The body, according to the family, had deep cuts on the head, face and at his neck showing signs of strangulation.  The deceased, a father of eight, was until his death a police constable attached to Embu DCI department and stationed at Itabua Mugoya Police station, and had served for 12 years. He was reported missing on Thursday after his family couldn't trace his whereabouts.  According to the deceased's third wife, Zainab Dheka who was living with him in Embu, Adow had gone for an assignment in Mombasa on Wednesday.  Dheka said on Thursday at around 10am they spoke on phone, and he informed her that he was at Isiolo highway on his back to Embu.  “My last call with him was on Thursday, and he told me he was coming back to the station,” Dheka narrated.  His first wife, Rahma Abdirahim, said she last spoke with her husband on Wednesday last week at around 11am.  The family claims the police have been frustrating their efforts to know the whereabouts of their kin.  According to Adow's brother Abdikadir Abdulahi, after filing a missing person report at Isiolo police station where his car was found on Friday, he was referred to Embu.  It is said that the deceased was in the company of a friend identified as Yahya Hassan when he went missing. Hassan is still missing, and the family is still searching for him.   By Phares Mutembei | 2 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago