Deputy President William Ruto addresses Ibulbul residents in Kajiado County on January 13, 2022. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has made public the list of officials who will drive Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential campaign.  The officials will also run the affairs of UDA.  Yesterday, the DP chaired the inaugural National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Karen, Nairobi.  Omingo Magara is UDA’s new national treasurer, replacing Eddah Jebet. Karisa Munyika is the national organising secretary, taking over from Anthony Otieno Ombok. UDA also picked Seth Panyako as the deputy chairperson, Programmes and Nicholas Marete as the deputy chairperson Strategy.      Kirwa Rono will serve as the deputy chairperson in charge of Operations while Mohamed Sahal replaces Ruth Ondicho as the deputy secretary general, Operations.  Former ANC strategist Eliud Owalo was appointed deputy secretary general in charge of Strategy while Daniel ole Sambu will serve as deputy secretary general in charge of Programmes.  The position of deputy national treasurer in charge of Programmes went to Kanake Mugo who replaced Lily Nyawira.  Mary Emaase was appointed the deputy national treasurer, Policy and Strategy and Rotich Kipkemoi Deputy national treasurer in charge of Operations.  Jamhuri Warda replaces Mohammed Ishmael as deputy national organising secretary in charge of Operations.  The position of deputy national organising secretary in charge of Strategy went to Charles Wanjala while Halima Omar will be in charge of Programmes.  Edward Muriu takes over from Melisa Ngania as UDA Secretary for Legal Affairs.  Others are secretary for MSMEs, Trade and Industrialisation Ndii Mbuba, Secretary for Labour and Social Services Ngacha Githinji and Secretary for Lands, Housing and Urban Planning Shako Wasambo.  Elina Samini is secretary for Water and Sanitation, Julius Kabue (Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries), Francis Maina (Energy Petroleum and Mining), Ngitit Cecilia (Transport), Robert Theuri (Education), Ciciliah Wairimu (Women Affairs) and Surum Korema (Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources.  Others are Mwangangi Katile (Information, Communication and Technology), Oscar Igaida (Economic Affairs and Planning), Mark Lemunokol (Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations) and Leah Jelagat (Health).  A high ranking UDA official said the NEC discussed the party’s political future.  “I can confirm that we held our inaugural NEC meeting yesterday under the leadership of the deputy president. This now opens the door for the setting up of the elections board,” said the source.   By Wainaina Ndung'u | 5 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 5 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago George Natembeya’s transfer to Office of the President explained