ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi during an exclusive interview with KTN News on January 24, 2022. [David Gichuru, Standard]  ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has disclosed that he informed Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his Kanu counterpart Gideon Moi that Deputy President William Ruto was to attend ANC’s National Delegates Convention (ANC) at the Bomas of Kenya on Sunday.  In an exclusive interview with KTN News Kivumbi 2022 on Monday, Mudavadi said contrary to media reports, the two were made aware of the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party leaders attendance.  “I told them about Ruto’s coming and it was them to decide if they want to come to come or not,” he said.  Mudavadi disclosed that when his former One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals arrived at Bomas, they told him they were uncomfortable with the UDA brigade and wanted to walk out. “They told me they wanted to briefly appear and walk away because they were not comfortable with UDA leaders’ presence,” he said.  Mudavadi said unlike him, Kanu and Wiper did not disclose to ANC that they had invited ODM leader Raila Odinga at their respective NDCs, but they did not walk out of the two events.  “Kanu did not tell me Raila was coming, Wiper told us at the last minute, but we didn’t interfere with their invitation list because it is their right to choose who to invite and who not to,” he added.  Kalonzo and Gideon on Sunday walked out of the ANC event at the Bomas of Kenya as soon as the UDA team arrived at the venue.  He said he realized a few weeks ago that OKA was being stringed along and forced to work with Azimio prompting him to abandon the alliance.  Mudavadi also claimed that the Azimio la Umoja movement was a state project which was meant to influence the August 9 election in a certain way.  He said the kind of branding and organisation witnessed in Azimio la Umoja events was a clear indication the state was behind its funding.  “Azimio is a project with its owners, spending millions of Kenyans taxpayers’ money to interfere with the outcome of 2022 General Election,” he said.  He said ANC, UDA and Ford Kenya believe in transforming the country’s economy and that is why they have decided to work together.  Mudavadi said his announcement on Sunday has had a major impact on the political conversation in the country and will have a far-reaching effect ahead of the August 9 polls.  Ruto yesterday said details of his political deal with Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula will be soon made public.  Speaking during the UDA Parliamentary Group meeting at his Karen residence, the DP said the documents of the political agreement will also be deposited at the Registrar of Political Parties.  By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By John Shilitsa | 2 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 2 hours ago