Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi an Aspirant for Nairobi County Governor, acknowledges cheers from his supporters after being crowned as Nairobi Kamba elder at Kware grounds in Embakasi South Sub County. [Samson Wire, Standard]  Westlands MP and Nairobi governor aspirant Tim Wanyonyi has called for peaceful and issue-based politics ahead of the August 9 elections.  Mr Wanyonyi spoke in Embakasi South yesterday and castigated politicians engaging in confrontational politics and urged them to seek solutions to challenges facing city residents.  “Instead of practising dirty politics and attacking our competitors, we should be telling our constituents what we can do for them,” said Wanyonyi.   He cited rising cases of violence in the city where competitors were using the youth to disrupt rallies.  “Let us be of high integrity and tell our people what we will do for them. We should refrain from verbal and physical attacks against each other if we are to take this country forward,” said Wanyonyi.  His bid received a major boost after the Kamba community in the capital backed his candidature. Wanyonyi was given traditional regalia and handed tools used during a hunting mission. They symbolise protection and power.  “We are here because we saw, interrogated, scrutinised and realised that Tim Wanyonyi is the candidate we will walk with,” said Urban Kamba Nation chairman Alex Musyoka.  Musyoka however said they would support Wanyonyi on condition that he fulfilled their demands among them that he considers a member of the community as his running mate.  Mr Musyoka and the group’s National Coordinator Nicholas Mutuku told Wanyonyi to consider the community in city jobs, business environment and education.  “We have endorsed Tim Wanyonyi as our preferred Nairobi governor candidate. We are also urging him to look into our demands as a community,” he said.  Acknowledging that the Kamba community was one of the largest voting blocs in the city, Wanyonyi said he would ensure their demands were met under an MoU.  “One of the key things that I want to achieve is to make the city a vibrant business hub with a friendly and conducive environment,” said Wanyonyi.    He also drummed support for ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid, saying it was time for a shift in the country’s leadership.  The development comes days after more than 40 city MCAs endorsed Wanyonyi’s candidature.  Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya said the signs points towards ODM party leadership throwing its weight behind Wanyonyi. Karen MCA David Mberia added that they will rally their support behind Wanyonyi’s candidature not because of coercion but because of his track record as a leader.  “His track record in the 15 years he has been working in Nairobi speaks for itself,” said Mberia.  By Mireri Junior | 15 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Samson Wire | 1 day ago By Gerald Nyele | 1 day ago