Moses Kipchirchir Ruto appeared before Justice Weldon Korir. January 24, 2022. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  A self-confessed serial killer yesterday failed to take a plea when he appeared in the High Court in Kabarnet, Baringo County.  Moses Kipchirchir, who reportedly confessed to having killed nine people, among them his wife and child in Mogotio and Molo, was set to be charged with the murder of Veronicah Kanini, a Nakuru businesswoman.  The accused, who appeared before Justice Weldon Korir, did not take plea as expected after the prosecution led by State counsel George Mongare requested more time to have a conclusive mental assessment report.   “The matter is coming up for plea. The accused was taken to a doctor for mental assessment. The report was, however, inconclusive and the doctor is asking for more time until Wednesday,” said Mr Mongare.  Mr Kipchirchir allegedly murder 42-year-old Kanini on November 12, 2021, at Mogotio Estate. He was arrested on November 13, 2021, after he was found to have made a transaction from Kanini’s phone to his.  He later confessed to having killed Kanini and buried her body at the banks of Molo River in Mogotio where he led the police to exhume it on November 23.  On December 20, 2021, the accused was presented before the High Court in Kabarnet were police officers sought to detain him for more days to allow for his mental assessment.  Janet Cheruiyot, an advocate who has been appointed to represent the suspect on a pro-bono basis, did not object to the prayer but requested to be supplied with documentation and evidence the prosecution intends to rely on in the case.  “The court directs that the defence be supplied with trial documents by the prosecutor. The case will be mentioned on January 27, for the conclusive doctor’s report to be produced before the accused can take plea,” said Justice Korir.  He directed that the suspect be remanded at Nakuru GK Prison.  Meanwhile, the suspect will be charged with murder of his wife Purity Chebet, 24, and their one-and-a-half-year-old son Ezra.  Kipchirchir confessed to having killed the two last September and buried them a few kilometres from where Kanini’s body was exhumed.  The police in Mogotio have forwarded separate files for the mother and her son to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for further processing before the suspect can be charged.  Earlier, a senior detective told The Standard that the suspect had listed the names of six other people whom he had confessed to killing between 2012 and 2018.  By Bakari Ang'ela and Juliet Omelo | 10 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 12 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 13 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 13 hours ago