DP William Ruto graced the Amani party National Delegates Conference (NDC) at the Bomas of Kenya. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Mixed reactions greeted new dalliance between Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Deputy President William Ruto.  DP Ruto has graced the Amani party National Delegates Conference (NDC) which gave Mudavadi the green light to vie for the top seat on August 9 General Elections.  Mudavadi was categorical in his elaborate, hard-hitting speech that he had made up his mind to reach out to new friends including DP Ruto.   He indicated that he was not ready to listen to others dictate who he should work with and those he should not work with.  But the move appears to have starred political earthquake across Western, Mudavadi's perceived home turf.  Political pundits have differed on the likely political implications Mudavadi's move could have on the latter's political career and the outcome of the General Elections.  Martin Oloo, a political commentator told The Standard that if Ruto endorses Mudavadi, that will be a political earthquake.  "I doubt it, Mudavadi has let himself down by appearing to be vocal against the status quo and proceeding to embrace the Deputy President. That is an oxymoron, he has decided to continue with his current journey in the political wilderness," argues Oloo.  But the political analyst could not predict what the development leaves room for ODM leader Raila Odinga to take full control of the Western vote-rich bloc.  Oloo could not tell whether governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and Coultu secretary-general Francis Atwoli could deliver the Western bloc to Raila.  "It is not about Oparanya , Atwoli or Wamalwa. It is the people of mulembe who would rather vote with their neighbours than be auctioned at the political market-place in Sugoi. As a matter of fact, Raila should stop relying on kingpins to anchor his political fortunes. He should reach out to the people directly," avers Oloo.  Moses Wetangula, DP William Ruto, Musalia Mudavadi and William Kabogo during the Amani party National Delegates Conference (NDC) at the Bomas of Kenya. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Prof Egara Kabaji from Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology shares similar sentiments.  The scholar argues that Raila could blame himself if he fails to tame some of his arrogant Allies who keeps hurling insults instead of winning more supporters.  "There are those leaders on Raila side who scare other politicians from working with the former Prime Minister, he must tame them."  Former Assistant Cabinet Minister for Lands Bifwoli Wakoli said Mudavadi would make a better President.  "I have listened to what he promises to offer, he is an intelligent person, I would vote for him even if he did not support my presidential bid in 2013," said Bifwoli.  Many residents of Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia interviewed said Mudavadi should have joined hands with Raila or go it alone all the way.  Lugari MP Ayub Savula said he saw it coming and decided to ditch ANC.  Savula defected to the newly formed Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP- K).  On Sunday, Ruto announced that they will embark on joint campaigns together with Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula starting from Nakuru on Wednesday before heading to Western on Friday and Saturday.  By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 2 hours ago