Dennis Itumbi’s doctors said he was admitted with multiple injuries including a fractured finger. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto’s digital strategist Dennis Itumbi yesterday limped out of hospital where he has been bedridden for a week.  After his discharge from Nairobi West Hospital, Itumbi who was with MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), maintained that the attack was orchestrated by police working to silence dissenting voices.  He hit out at his abductors stating that he will reveal information he has on them once he recuperates.   “To the few rogue police officers who think they can control political options by maiming, injuring and hitting people, this is my message; you did nothing,” said Itumbi.  “This abhorrent incident was actually orchestrated by the same government we pay taxes to protect us,” said Nyoro.  When asked whether they have proof of their claims, Itumbi said: “They may have thought that the whole thing they did was secret but the Hustler Nation Investigation Bureau was not quiet. We have the evidence.”   Together with his compatriots from United Democratic Alliance (UDA), Itumbi has sworn to reveal the intelligence linking the police force to the attack and abduction when he will be attending a church service in Kirinyiga County in February.  The vocal blogger was abducted from a barbershop along Kiambu road on December 23 and found naked and beaten up that evening in Lucky Summer, Nairobi.  “When I came here 10 days ago, I was in serious pain. I couldn’t even open my eyes. In fact, I didn’t think that I would be standing here and addressing you,” said Itumbi.  Itumbi’s doctors said he was admitted with multiple injuries including a fractured finger, a fractured right leg and right hand and an injury on one of his eyes.  By Wallace Kantai | 25 minutes ago By Mireri Junior | 55 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Kenya Yearbook Editorial Board | 4 hours ago Key players to watch in Uhuru succession race