Former Citizen TV news anchor Hussein Mohamed has said he believes in Deputy President William Ruto’s hustler movement just like a majority of Kenyans.  While accepting his new role, Hussein said he shares the hustler story and the bottom-up economic model being pushed by DP Rutu under the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party.  “I share with the hustler story and so do the majority of Kenyans. Nothing gives me more pleasure than being part of this team that is driving a paradigm shift in our politics and ultimately, governance from top-down, to bottom-up,” Hussein tweeted.  Hussein thanked Ruto for appointing him to head his presidential campaign's communication ahead of the August 9 election.  Ruto on Monday named the former Citizen Television talk show host as his presidential campaigns Head of Communications. Ruto took to his official Twitter handle to announce that the former anchor had joined the Hustler Nation movement.  “Renowned TV journalist has been appointed Head of Communications in the William Ruto Presidential Campaign. Welcome to the Hustler team,” DP Ruto wrote on his Twitter.  The appointment comes a day after Ruto bagged ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula ahead of the August 9 polls.  In 2019 Hussein was awarded the ‘Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear, MBS, by President Uhuru Kenyatta for his distinguished service to the nation in his capacity as a journalist.  Hussein quit TV in October 2019 after a stellar career spanning close to 10 years to concentrate on "other matters".  "It has been a wonderful 10 years at Citizen TV. I have enjoyed and relished every moment I shared with my colleagues at RMS,” he announced on Twitter.  Before his resignation, Mohamed hosted News Night, where he mostly interviewed politicians on prime time news every Tuesday.  Hussein has interviewed President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga among other top politicians in the country.  By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Joachim Bwana, Collins Kweyu and John Shilitsa | 4 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 8 hours ago