Funyula residents during the public participation over the said piece of land. [Robert Amalemba, Standard]  Residents of Funyula Constituency, Busia County, have agreed to use 12 acres of community land to set up an industrial park.  The residents had been unsettled over the use of the land and had demanded public participation and involvement of all stakeholders in the decision on what project would benefit the community.  However, after the intervention of, among others former Vice President Moody Awori, a meeting was held at Nangina in Samia sub-county, where it was agreed that using the parcel to construct Jua kali stalls would be the most appropriate project that would benefit many residents.  "I gathered that the community wanted a public participation event organised and I am happy that everyone, including the former Vice President Awori, has been eager to know how this land which has been idle for too long, would be developed," said Samia sub-county administrator Caroline Oduor who spoke at Funyula CDF Hall, the venue of the meeting. The land had been idle for decades prompting some residents, led by Awori, to start pushing for its development.  County's Chief Officer for Lands and Housing Teresia Mbingi said the government would follow through the resolutions of the meeting and ensure the industrial park is built in good time.  “We will have another meeting next week and forward the minutes to the National Lands Commission, explaining how the 12 acres in Funyula town would be used,” said Ms Mbingi.  Industrial parks are usually located on the edges of, or outside, the main residential area of a city, and are normally provided with good transportation access, including road and rail.  Funyula Constituency office manager, Caroline Mskokha, who represented area MP Oundo Mudenyo said the legislator supported the plan to establish the industrial park.  She said that industrial parks had tremendously contributed to uplifting the national as well as local economies.  “Industrial parks have led to creation of employment, innovation, technology transfer besides creating avenues of capital investment and income tax,” she said.  “There is no doubt that our youth and women will benefit immensely from this project. We want to thank the former VP for his efforts to ensure the idea to have an industrial park here becomes a reality," Local MCA John Obwogo said.  By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 hour ago By Robert Kiplagat and Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago Uhuru dilemma as half Cabinet set to quit to vie for political positions