Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Cyrus Jirongo during a rally at Kitui Stadium yesterday. (Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday held a series of rallies in Kitui County in his bid to consolidate his vote base.  Kalonzo, who was in the company of Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, United Democratic Party leader Cyrus Jirongo and businessman Jimmy Wanjigi, is trying to craft a third force ahead of the August 9 general election.  The Wiper leader reiterated that his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta is still on course. Addressing a crowd at Kitui Stadium, Kalonzo said One Kenya Alliance (OKA) is still intact, despite ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi opting to work with Deputy President William Ruto of UDA.  “The stars are getting aligned. We are stronger than ever before. We lose one and we get four in. OKA will remain as OKA till the ballot,” Kalonzo said. Gideon urged the Kamba community to rally behind the Wiper leader and reject those seeking to divide it, insisting that the remaining OKA leaders would stick together while seeking alliances with new partners. “OKA is strong and we are behind Kalonzo. The plan we have is for round one victory,” the Kanu chairman said. The leaders cautioned voters against being swayed with bribes during the campaign period. “Wakifika hapa na pesa kula, lakini kura wasipate (if they come here with money, take it, but don’t give them your vote),” Gideon said. The Baringo Senator said OKA leadership will “tackle corruption head-on”, adding that those who have stolen public resources will be dealt with firmly.    Jirongo said Mudavadi is engaging in ‘trade politics’ meant to auction the Luhya community.   The Wiper boss dismissed the narrative that the presidential election was a two-horse race between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ruto.  Kalonzo warned the two leaders to brace themselves for the stiff competition ahead. “They claim it is a two-horse race. Let them be warned that the buffalo soldier has come. My road to State House is clear. It has been made clear by those who have left,” Kalonzo stated in an apparent reference to Mudavadi.  He added that Mudavadi got wind that the OKA technical team had settled on him as the alliance’s presidential flag bearer and decided to shift his focus. “They knew I was to be the OKA flagbearer and felt they could not stand it. It was very clear, but I wish them well,” he added.  The Wiper leader described himself as a peacemaker and a corruption-free leader who would make a perfect president.  He said in the 2007-08 post-election violence, he brought peace and stability to the country.  Jirongo said he has covered up for some politicians’ past mistakes.  “I have endured the pain of Kenyans looking at me as a person responsible for the collapse of the economy in 1992/93. I have endured that shame to cover up for my brothers who were deep in the Goldenberg scandal,” he said.  Jirongo added that OKA brings together other like-minded leaders such as Martha Karua of Narc Kenya and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to take over the country’s leadership. Businessman Wanjigi said the ODM leader cannot be trusted with the country’s leadership.     By Philip Muasya | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago