A checkered past, questionable integrity and insubordination within the Jubilee government are among reasons Mt Kenya region will not vote for Deputy President William Ruto, PNU leader Peter Munya has claimed.   Taking cue from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s speech on Wednesday in Sagana, Mr Munya yesterday painted the picture of “a man who is unfit to rule”.  He reaffirmed PNU’s resolve to support ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.     Speaking during the PNU National Delegates Conference at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, the Agriculture Cabinet Secretary claimed that a Ruto presidency would only reverse the gains made by President Kenyatta’s administration.    “This time round we will look at the character and history of a person before giving him a political position,”  stated Munya.    “You were in the government in the nineties that almost made Kenya bankrupt and oppressed the masses before the citizens decided enough was enough,” he added.   And bowing to pressure from the crowd at the NDC, the CS accepted a rallying call to be Raila’s running mate.   “The democratic forces in this country that want a better future for our children will rally behind Raila and Uhuru under Azimio. If the DP position is also in the offing, why not take it,” said Munya amid applause.   Raila promised to institute economic liberation. “The country is ripe for the third liberation which will bring tangible economic development to our people through the Azimio la Umoja Movement,” he said.  The ODM leader said the Kenya Kwanza coalition was proposing solutions that have never worked anywhere.   Raila criticised Ruto’s church donations.   “We know the source of the funds that he doles out every Sunday,” he said.    Leaders who attended the NDC included Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, his Kisumu counterpart Anyang’ Nyong’o, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Tharaka Nithi Deputy Governor Francis Kagwima.  By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 6 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 6 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 14 hours ago