ODM leader Raila Odinga acknowledges greetings during the party's National Governing Convention (NGC) meeting at the Bomas of Kenya on February 25, 2022. [Twitter/ODM]  The eagerly anticipated ODM-Jubilee joint rally that was scheduled for this Sunday has been postponed to March.  Making the announcement on Friday, ODM Director of Elections Junet Mohamed said the two parties will formally launch the Azimio la Umoja Coalition in two weeks’ time.  Junet spoke during the party’s National Governing Convention (NGC) meeting at the Bomas of Kenya where ODM’s top organ ratified the party's nomination rules.   The party’s National Executive Committee on Thursday approved a decision to formally join the Azimio la Umoja Coalition.  It also endorsed Raila Odinga as its preferred presidential candidate in the August 9 General Election.  Delegates at the National Governing Convention (NGC) meeting at the Bomas of Kenya on February 25, 2022. [Duncan Khaemba, Standard]  ODM and Jubilee were expected to hold a joint rally on Sunday after holding their respective NDCs where Raila was to be unveiled as the presidential flag bearer under the Azimio la Umoja coalition.  “Over 10 parties who have already subscribed to the Azimio Coalition will be invited to the grand launch. ODM and Jubilee will become anchors and founding members of the Jubilee Coalition movement,” Junet added.  The Orange party's meeting ran concurrently with the Jubilee NGC which took place at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) in Nairobi.  Delegates at the NGC reviewed the party’s policies and ratified proposed changes to the party’s Constitution.  President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday threw his weight behind Raila under the Azimio la Umoja Coalition for the presidency in the August polls while at the same time castigating his deputy William Ruto saying he was 'politically immature', and not ready to succeed him.     By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By Dennis Tarus | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 3 hours ago