George Wajackoyah. [Winfrey Owino, Standard]  George Wajackoyah has opened up about his personal life, childhood and marriage days after taking the internet by storm when he announced his presidential ambitions.  At the mention of his name, most Kenyans, especially social media users remember his proposals, key among them being legalizing the growing, use and sale of marijuana.  In an exclusive interview with The Standard, the presidential hopeful opened up about his personal life and childhood in the streets of Nairobi.  “I have eaten everything; I even know the smell of beans. I grew up in the streets so I know what life in the streets looks like. That is why I am pained when I see people steal from children,” he said. His parents divorced and abandoned him when he was three. He set out to Busia, aiming at travelling to Uganda, where he heard his mother had moved to.    That is how he made his way to the streets of Nairobi, roaming around with other boys who were also homeless before a well-wisher rescued him.  “I matured very fast as life would have it. I grew up so fast. In fact, I became a ‘man’ before I was old enough to become a man,” he added.  On his marital status, Wajackoyah revealed that his wife was an American working in the aviation industry. He adds that his kids are born and raised in Europe and still live there.  “Yes, I am married and she is my number one supporter. Even before I came here we talked and she keeps pushing me,” he told the Standard.  When asked whether he thought he was controversial, the presidency aspirant dismissed the claims saying he only stands for what is right.  ‘I have never been controversial. Is suggesting punishment for crime controversial? In West Africa, people are shot dead. I am just suggesting what can be done to make people afraid of stealing,” he defended himself from the claims.  According to him, he reiterated suspending the constitution once elected because the judges, he says, have used the law to frustrate president Uhuru’s regime.  “I would suspend the constitution because people have been frustrating the government. Judges can do anything with the constitution. See how they have derailed president Uhuru’s regime. Anything he does, someone moves to court and stops it,” he said.  While defending his decision to make Friday a weekend, he attributes his proposal to the need for more family time and equality in worship by allowing Islam faithful rest on their day of worship.  Wajackoyah became an internet sensation Saturday after he officially announced his presidential bid and outlined his pledges ahead of the August presidential elections.   The lawyer pledged to create eight prime minister positions in his government, personally serve as the Immigration minister, suspend the constitution for six months, change the working days to Monday through Thursday, legalise bhang and sell it to clear Kenya's loans.  By Amos Kareithi | 50 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago