Homa Bay Sub County DCC Jude Wasonga receives security Padlock from Education PS Dr Julius Jwan and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i during the launch of the 2021 National Examination period. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiangi has called on political leaders to put the interest of the nation first as the August general election approaches.  Speaking during an interdenominational Church service bringing together Christians from Kisii, Nyamira, Narok and Bomet counties at Manga Stadium today, Matiangi said Kenya was one of the few countries that successfully holds elections after every five years.  Matiangi said political leaders should not behave like the coming election will be the end of the world saying that Kenyans will support leaders who will be elected and there should be no reasons for any worries.   " I am asking religious leaders to pray for our country as we head to the next general election so that we can have good leaders and God is going to answer our genuine prayers," said Matiangi.  The CS called on Kenyans to pray for President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and other leaders as the country prepares for the general election.  Matiangi said that God had already chosen leaders for various positions in the country asking Kenyans to pray for guidance to identify good people to lead them for the next five years.  He said that frequent peace meetings between elders from Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet and Narok counties would be conducted to promote peaceful coexistence experienced for the last 10 years.  The Cabinet Secretary said that the government will ensure that police stations will be put up in volatile border areas across the country to ensure peace is maintained.  Various church leaders from the four counties who spoke during the interdenominational service promised to ensure that members of their community coexist in harmony.  They promised to support government efforts to promote peace in the country and the region which has experienced turmoil.  By Peter Muiruri | 36 minutes ago By Dominic Omondi | 36 minutes ago By Augustine Oduor | 36 minutes ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago