Kenyans wait to register a voter at the IEBC's GPO centre, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  As the second phase of voter registration by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) comes to an end, concerns have been raised over low numbers of youth have enlisted.  In the exercise, which began on January 17, IEBC was targeting to register 4.5 million new voters.  IEBC Commissioner Irene Masit raised concern over the low numbers of new voters registered during the first and second phases of mass voter registration.   “Voter registration apathy is a growing concern given that last year’s enhanced voter registration witnessed a low turnout, forcing the government to facilitate this second phase. The government provided us Sh1 billion for this exercise, and we have continued urging the masses, particularly the youth, to register and take part in the polls,” said Masit.  Uasin Gishu County IEBC Coordinator Jane Gitonga said the turnout was low, and as of February 5, they had only registered 30,676 new voters against the 91,000 target.  During the first phase of the mass voter registration in October and November last year, only 46,000 people enlisted against the target of 137,000.  Voter apathy  Gitonga said that although voter apathy is not deeply rooted, many factors have contributed to the poor turn out.  “In my view, political parties are not played a big role in mobilising the public to register as voters. Some years ago, the parties would spend money traversing the country with an objective of encouraging residents to register as voters, but they have since withdrawn from such mobilisation,” said the county IEBC Coordinator.  She also blamed the low turnout on lack of civic education.  “Due to lack of funds, we have not been able to conduct roadshows and encourage people to turn up andbe registered as we used to do before. This could be another contributing factor to the low turnout,” explained Gitonga.  Timothy Saina, a resident of Uasin Gishu, said that he was yet to register as a voter because he has not identified suitable candidates he would vote for in the elections.  “I have never voted before, but I just cannot see any leader I would gladly vote for. Hopefully I will register before it is too late,” said Saina.  In Bungoma County, only 29,131 people had registered by February 5, representing 15.67 per cent of the targeted 186,000 new voters.  Kanduyi sub-county IEBC Returning Officer Amosi Chilai said they failed to meet their target during the second phase of mass voter registration which ended yesterday.  IEBC was targeting to register 4.5 million new voters. [File, Standard]  “We witnessed a positive turn out of youth in the second phase of the voter registration. As per the sample collected, 74 per cent of the newly registered voters are youth, and the rest are those who want to transfer from one voting centre to another,” said Chilai.  IEBC County Election Manager Grace Rono noted that they were targeting to register more voters but by yesterday morning they had managed a paltry 18 per cent.  “Unlike in the first phase of the registration where we got 57,816 out of 171,346 target, translating to 34 per cent, this time we are far from the 225,199 new voters target,” said Rono.  According to a local Denis Otieno, he has not enlisted because he believes his vote will not count.  “It is pointless to cast my ballot only for the election to be rigged, it is waste of time because we have seen that happen in the past,” said Otieno.  Paul Maloba, 25, from Shinoyi in Kakamega North, believes that many youths were ignorant about the importance of participating in an election.  “Many of them have not received civic education, they don’t know what role they are required to play and the benefits thereafter,” he said.  Tana River county registered 6,807 new voters in the second phase against the targeted 24,000.   The IEBC County Coordinator Mohamed Raka blamed the low numbers on pastoralists way of life and locals lack of understanding of their rights.  “We have many eligible voters in the interior areas but their pastoral nature of shifting homes for pasture and water has really affected the turn out,” he said.  Raka also noted that some eligible residents demand for money from politicians to register as voters.  Worried that few youth were turning up to register as voters, Harrison Muthamia, a youth leader in Igembe Central, Meru, took it upon himself to mobilise residents to enlist.  Although he is from Igembe South Sub County, Muthamia, 26, has been mobilising residents in other sub counties as well.  The small scale businessman he has been using a boda boda to reach other youth.  IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati addressing the press in Naivasha, Nakuru County. January 7, 2022. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  “Many youth are not registered; I know because I am with them on the ground,” he said.  But it is in Igembe Central where he has been actively reaching out to youths.  “I have visited Njia, Kangeta, Akirang’ondu, some parts of Athiru Rujine, Maili Tatu and plan to visit Igembe East, Athiru Ruujine wards and other remaining parts. I will try to cover more areas in Igembe Central as we mark the end of voters registration,” he said.  Two youth lobby groups in Nyanza and Western over the weekend intensified voter registration drive.  Sons of Baba-Kenya and Young Turks Handshake Alliance said they will rally the region behind ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  The Young Turks began their campaigns in Kisii on Friday morning through to Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya and finally in Busia county.  The caravan was led by Jaoko Oburu, son to Eala member Oburu Odinga.  Jaoko raised concern that many youths in the region and the country were yet to register as voters.  “This is a big concern. We must be ready to change the perception that elections don’t matter. Let us be willing to elect right leaders. We can only achieve meaningful growth in the country after participating in the electoral process,” he said.  [Eric Abuga, Lynn Kolongei, Phares Mutembei, Hassan Barisa, Omelo Juliet and Jackline Inyanji]  By Mercy Kahenda | 2 hours ago By Rosa Agutu | 8 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony and Patrick Kibet | 8 hours ago By PSCU | 8 hours ago