India said yesterday it had summoned South Korea's ambassador to express displeasure over a social media post by a Pakistani partner of Hyundai Motor over disputed Kashmir that has caused a furore in the country.  The foreign ministers of India and South Korea also spoke by telephone as the car company faced a backlash in India from social media users incensed by comments expressing solidarity with the people of Kashmir.  South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong expressed his regret during the conversation with Indian counterpart Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, an Indian foreign ministry spokesperson said yesterday.  The diplomatic escalation is a rare moment of discord between the two countries that have long enjoyed friendly ties, and highlights the risks global companies face while navigating local sensitivities amid rising nationalism in the region.  The row erupted on Sunday, a day after Pakistan marked the annual Kashmir Solidarity Day. Posts on behalf of Hyundai's partner, the Nishat Group, appeared on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram commemorating what it described as the sacrifices of Kashmiris struggling for self-determination. India and arch-rival Pakistan control parts of Kashmir but both claim the Himalayan territory in full.  India says Pakistan supports an armed insurrection against New Delhi's rule in India-controlled Kashmir that broke out in 1990. Pakistan denies the charge and says it only provides diplomatic and moral support for the Kashmiri people.  South Korea's envoy was called into the Indian foreign office on Monday to register New Delhi's protest against the posts, Indian foreign ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said.  "The strong displeasure of the government on the unacceptable social media post by Hyundai Pakistan was conveyed to him," he said.  "It was highlighted that this matter concerned India's territorial integrity on which there could be no compromise. We expect the company to take appropriate action to properly address these issues."  Earlier yesterday, Hyundai issued a statement saying it deeply regrets any offence caused to Indians by an "unauthorized" tweet from the account of its Pakistan partner.  "As a business policy, Hyundai Motor Company does not comment on political or religious issues in any specific region," Hyundai said in a Twitter post.   By Reuters | 6 hours ago By Agencies | 3 days ago By Reuters | 7 days ago By Mwangi Maina and Patrick Vidija  | 7 days ago