Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka speaks during NARC-Kenya NDC at Ufungamano House, Nairobi. February 18, 2022. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) took its campaign to Lunga Lunga sub-county in Kwale yesterday where it pledged to introduce free secondary and tertiary education once it takes power.  Principals Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi said funds to implement the free education programme will be raised from the recovery of proceeds from corruption.  At the same time, Kalonzo gave another indication yet that he will engage in coalition talks with Azimio la Umoja but asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to back him instead.   Addressing a political rally at Makambani in Lunga Lunga sub-county, Kalonzo admitted that he met and greeted Raila at a Mombasa hotel, but denied engaging in coalition talks.  “I went for breakfast at a hotel where Gideon was and met Raila by chance. I only greeted him and had my breakfast at a separate table,” he said.  But he asked Kenyans to be patient, noting that there was no need to rush a coalition pact with Azimio.  He said if there was a need to enter into dialogue with Azimio, he would demand honest talks witnessed by trusted political allies including Gideon.  “There is no need to rush a coalition pact with Azimio. In fact, we want them to join us. We must have an honest discussion.  If I meet Raila, I will ask him to support my presidential bid this time round after backing him twice,” he said.  Kalonzo said he trusted Gideon and President Uhuru Kenyatta and would not have talks without the involvement of his close allies.   Kalonzo said he has enough experience to run the country and declared that he was prepared to face off with the so-called two horses in the presidential race - Raila and Deputy President William Ruto.  Kalonzo and Gideon said it was possible to offer free secondary education if funds stolen from public coffers were recovered and channelled to development programmes.  “We started with free primary education during President Kibaki’s time. OKA will implement free secondary education after taking power. We will order the graft lords to return all stolen wealth within six months of taking power,” Kalonzo said.  Gideon said OKA will take decisive action against corruption and ensure culprits pay dearly.  “Kenyans are poor because of runaway corruption. We are going to seal the loopholes and direct the funds to education and development programmes,” he said.  He said OKA will push for a 24-hour economy to increase production and create jobs for the youth.  By Phares Mutembei | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 13 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 13 hours ago