Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu after inspecting a guard of honour outside City Hall. [Samson Wire, Standard]  Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu has reshuffled her cabinet following the resignation of five of her ministers to seek elective posts in the August election.  Last week, CECs Charles Kerich (Lands and Housing), Veska Kangogo (Devolution and Public Service Management) and Janet Ouko (Education and Sports) stepped down in line with the February 9, 2022, deadline by the head of public service.  Others who also handed in their resignation letters include Water, Energy and Sanitation Chief Officer Mohamed Abdi and his Food, Agriculture and Livestock Development counterpart Halkano Waqo.   Consequently, Kananu has appointed Commerce, Tourism and Cooperatives CEC Winfred Gathangu to act as the Lands and Housing minister. Food, Agriculture and Livestock Development CEC Lucia Mulwa will also take charge of the Education and Sports sector also in an acting capacity.   Environment, Water and Sanitation Executive Larry Wambua will be in charge of the Devolution docket formerly held by Kangogo in an acting capacity.  Food, Agriculture and Forestry Director Mary Kibira will take over from Waqo. She will take up the role of new acting chief officer for Water, Energy and Sanitation. She is currently an acting director in the same docket.  The Director of Sub-County Administration Joel Muli will take over as an acting chief officer in the vacant Devolution, Administration and Public Service docket.  “The Nairobi County Government is hereby reorganised in line with the Constitution, the County Governments Act Section 30(2e) and 45(5) as a result of the resignation of county executive committee members who wish to pursue political careers in the upcoming General Election.  "The outlined changes take effect immediately,” stated Governor Kananu in a statement announcing the changes.   Kerich resigned to contest the Bomet Central parliamentary seat currently held by Ronald Tonui while Kangogo is vying for the Uasin Gishu gubernatorial seat.   The two are both vying on Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance party.  Ouko is eyeing Kasarani parliamentary seat in Nairobi County where she is seeking to oust the incumbent Mercy Gakuya. Others that have expressed interest in the seat are Sportpesa CEO Ronald Karauri.   Mr Abdi is eyeing Lafey parliamentary seat in Mandera County. The seat is currently held by Ibrahim Abdi Mude.  Waqo will contest for Saku parliamentary seat in Marsabit County, currently held by Dido Ali Raso.  By Collins Kweyu | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 6 hours ago By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 18 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 1 day ago