Eric Manyange Ondieki, Elikana Nyabuto and Andrew Onsando Orina at a Milimani court on Monday, February 7, 2022, when they were charged with the offence of allegedly stealing a television set valued at Sh50 000 the property of the Judiciary. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Three people have been charged with an alleged theft of a television set belonging to the judiciary.  The three among them a driver and two cleaners from a private company were presented before Chief Magistrate Wendy Kagendo on Monday and charged with the offence of allegedly stealing a television set valued at Sh50, 000, being the property of the Judiciary.  Eric Manyange Ondieki, Elikana Nyabuto and Andrew Onsando Orina are said to have committed the offence on January 22, 2022, at Milimani law courts, Nairobi, jointly with others not before the court.  The court was told that the three jointly stolen the TLC model 43P615, black set. While Ondieki the driver denied the charge, Nyabuto and Orina pleaded guilty to the charge.  The two cleaners were arrested last week after CCTV cameras installed at the building captured them carting away the TV towards the building's lift.  A police report presented in court stated that the stolen television set was transported using a judiciary vehicle registration number GKA 198R Mercedes Benz which was driven by Ondieki.  According to the report, Ondieki was allegedly paid Sh2,500 for the transportation service  After the arrest, the suspects led a team of DCI officers to Mukuru kwa Njenga slums where they had sold the said TV set to Solomon Nyabuto Ogembo.  The officers managed to recover the television at the Moto Moto area in the slum having been sold to a third party.  Ondieki was released on a bond of Sh100, 000 or alternative cash bail of Sh50,000.  His case will be mentioned on February 28.   Onsando and Nyabuto are set to be sentenced today.  By Collins Kweyu | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 12 hours ago By James Wanzala | 5 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 5 days ago