Polling clerks receive Jubilee Party nomination election materials at a warehouse in Kirimari Secondary School [Joseph Muchiri, Standard]  We are getting into a watershed period when everything said or done must be weighed carefully against possible consequences.  In less than six months from now, Kenyans will be electing new leaders. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second and final term in office is coming to a close in August and there will be the inevitable change of occupancy at Harambee and State houses.  That change will be preceded by intense campaigns in which aspiring leaders will sell their ideologies in the hope of winning the voters’ endorsement. As it stands, there is shocking evidence of voter apathy occasioned by citizen disillusionment with a leadership that is long on promises but short on delivery.    Party nominations promise to be intense. We cannot delude ourselves that all will be fine because grumblings have a way of turning things around for the worst. For this reason, political parties owe it to Kenyans to conduct nominations with utmost care, the end point being fair play and the maintenance of peace and harmonious existence. Unfortunately, some scheming politicians seem intent on ruffling feathers. In several parts of the country, there have been murmurs by political aspirants and even members of the public over plan by party honchos' plan to favour some aspirants.  Needless to say, Kenya is a democracy whose ideals demand that the majority get their way while the minority have their say. People have every right to participate in the nomination exercises without specific leaders being imposed on them. Of course, nominations will present a headache for most parties, but should not be a reason to subvert the will of the people.  If a party opts for 'negotiated democracy', as ably practiced by communities in Northern Kenya, so be it, but such must bear the peoples’ stamp of approval. Direct nominations that leave some aspirants and a section of party members grumbling defeat the very purpose of democracy. As Kenneth Matiba, one of the fathers of Kenya's multiparty democracy, once said, let the people decide.  By Editorial | 15 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 4 days ago