A dose of a Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine is prepared at Lurie Children's hospital, Nov 2021, in Chicago, U.S. [AP]  Almost 10 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered globally since the vaccines became available in December 2020. Africa has had about 330 million doses. Kenya rolled out its vaccination program in March 2021.  To date, more than 11 million vaccine doses have been administered. The challenge for the Ministry of Heath is to ensure that the vaccines, which are now in plenty, are promptly administered to the eligible population.  A multi-pronged approach involving all the relevant stakeholders is the best bet to guarantee increased uptake. Employers can play a significant role in driving vaccination uptake among their employees and their families. One such successful initiative by employers has been coordinated by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA). Through the KEPSA Vaccine Initiative, employers contributed funds towards purchase of Covid-19 vaccines, which were then administered to their staff and members of the public.  Covid-19 vaccines have been proven to reduce the risk of transmission, hospitalisation and death. Vaccination of staff accrues additional benefits to employers, including improved employee morale, confidence in adopting hybrid working models and reassurance to customers visiting their offices. On the other hand, employers incur direct costs as a result of medical expenses for staff with Covid-19 and indirect costs due to lost productivity. The following can help employers increase vaccination uptake. Employers should formally declare support for the ongoing vaccination campaign. In addition, the employer should have a vaccination plan in place to proactively increase uptake. The organisation leaders should take an active role in championing the plan and should share their own vaccination statuses. Once a vaccination plan is in place, the employer should establish the vaccination status of their employees. Those who are not yet vaccinated may be requested to indicate their reasons for not doing so. Some of the common reasons employees fail to get vaccinated include concerns about side effects, presence of underlying medical conditions, preference for a specific vaccine and lack of awareness of the available vaccination centres.  There has been a lot of conflicting information about Covid-19 vaccines in both mainstream and social media. With such information overload, distinguishing facts from myths becomes hard. Employers should facilitate access to credible information. A medical practitioner can be invited to take staff through the relevant information on vaccines, with an opportunity for interactive question and answer sessions. In addition, employers should make it clear that their employees are allowed time off to get vaccinated, including an extra day off in case one needs rest to overcome any side effects. Where possible, employers should provide onsite vaccination for their employees and families.  All employers have a role to play in supporting the ongoing vaccination drive. Employers should use persuasion to encourage their employees to get vaccinated. A human-centred approach, focused on understanding and addressing the real reasons why their employees may not yet be vaccinated, is critical in achieving full vaccination.  Dr. Matolo is the Medical Practice Manager, Health Business - UAP Old Mutual Group  By Peter Kimani | 4 hours ago By James Marcomic Maragia | 19 hours ago By Agumba Ndaloh | 19 hours ago By Editorial | 19 hours ago