A boat docked at the shore of Lake Victoria in Mbita town during the official of the launch of the Kenya Coast Guard Mbita Station in Homa Bay County on December 3, 2021. [James Omoro, Standard]  Newly established Kenya Coast Guards and State Department for Fisheries are embroiled in a tussle over controlling fishing in various national water bodies.  The matter came to the public domain yesterday when State Department for Fisheries, Aquaculture and the Blue Economy appealed to Members of Parliament to intervene.  The state department said that the tussle has the potential of compromising the country’s security.   Fisheries Principal Secretary Francis Owino accused the Kenya Coast Guards of interference with the department’s mandate.  The PS told the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi to intervene and address the matter.  “This is the time to bring this serious matter to the fore and bring order to Kenya Coast Guards. The economic havoc they unleashed in Naivasha recently is outside there for all to see,” said Dr Owino.  He made the remarks when he appeared before the committee that is considering audit reports for the 2019/2020 financial year.  The Kenya Coast Guards which was recently created is responsible for law enforcement on the oceans, lakes as well as rivers. Its mandate includes maintaining maritime safety, security as well as pollution control and sanitation.  It recently came under sharp scrutiny following an incident where a licensed fisherman in Lake Naivasha was shot dead.  Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo questioned why Kenyan fishermen were still being harassed even after the creation of the Kenya Coast Guard to offer protection.  He asked the PS if he was aware of harassment and extortion of fishermen by the Kenya Coast Guard.  “When we enacted the Coast Guard Service Act, the Coast Guards were to help us protect fishermen from being arrested by other countries. But lately, they have become the greatest menace,” said Dr Amollo.  He said the officers confiscate boats and arrest fishermen before extorting even up to Sh20,000.  “It appears the Coast Guard has usurped your role and defeated the basis of its establishment,” said the Rarieda MP.  The PS told the committee that there was an urgent need to define the roles of the two-state agencies to avoid further squabbles.  “We are fully aware of the arrival of the Kenya Coast Guards. For the record, Coast Guard is domiciled in the State Department for Shipping and Maritime and not Fisheries,” he said.  By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago