Bifwoli Wakoli has resigned to vie for Bumula MP seat [File]  A number of top county employees eying political office in western Kenya have resigned as the deadline to tender their resignation hit yesterday.  In Kakamega, Kassim Were the Sports Executive, resigned to vie for the Mumias East MP seat against David Wamatsi of ANC and Lucas Radoli of ODM. His counterpart Nabii Nabwera who has been the chief officer Livestock will be vying for the Lugari parliamentary seat for the third time in a row after tendering his resignation.  Nabwera a close ally of Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya is seeking to replace Ayub Savula who will be vying for the governor seat on a DAP-K ticket. His Lands counterpart Robert Makhanu has resigned to battle for the Kongoni Ward seat.  Others who resigned to vie for MCA seats are Palapala Muteshi who was a chief officer and Herbert Sore the personal assistant to governor Oparanya. John Imbogo who served as the Chief Officer in the county’s finance department is seeking to be Fernandez Barasa’s running mate. Barasa the immediate former Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited (KETRACO) CEO resigned a week ago to start his journey of becoming governor of Kakamega County. Nominated MCA Jacklyne Okanya in Kakamega Assembly is eying the Mumias West MP seat against seasoned politician John Naicca.    In Vihiga County, Water Executive Mary Amalemba also resigned yesterday to vie for the Woman Representative position. Amalemba joined governor Wilber Ottichilo’s administration in April 2021. She had previously vied for the same seat in 2017, but came a distance third in an election that was won by Beatrice Adagala. She contested on an independent ticket in 2017, but has revealed she will vie on a party affiliated to Azimio la Umoja alliance in the coming polls.  Vihiga Lands Executive, Paul Mbuni also tendered in his resignation but has not declared the seat he will be vying for. Mbuni has had a long court case fighting his 2021 impeachment, but held on to his position after the court stopped his sacking.  Noah Okaya, liaison officer and former chief of staff in governor Ottichillo’s office has also resigned to vie for Luanda parliamentary seat. Okaya said he is seeking to topple the current MP Chris Omulele.  “I will bring dynamic leadership into the constituency that will benefit the residents,” said Okaya.  In Bungoma County, Gender and Special Programme Officer, Caroline Buyela resigned to vie for Webuye East parliament seat.  Bifwoli Wakoli who has been governor Wycliffe Wangamati Lands and Emerging Issues advisor has resigned to vie for Bumula MP seat same to John Wasike, Chief Officer Agriculture who will vie for the Webuye West MP seat.  Nancy Kibaba, the Youth and Boda boda advisor has resigned to vie for Bungoma Women Rep seat while Simiyu Mutaki, the deputy director in charge of logistics has resigned to vie for Chwele/Kabuchai MCA seat.  By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 5 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 2 days ago