Principal Secretary of Fisheries, Aquaculture and blue economy, Dr. Francis Owino [centre] is received by Chairman Kenya Marine Fisheries and Research Institute, John Safari Mumba [right], and the institute Director-General Prof. James Njiru [left] during the tour of the Institute by the Principal Secretary on May 26, 2021.[Omondi Onyango, Standard]  Newly established Kenya Coast Guards and State Department for Fisheries are embroiled in a tussle over control of fishing in various national water bodies.  The matter came to light yesterday when State Department for Fisheries, Aquaculture and the Blue Economy appealed to MPs to intervene.  It said the tussle had the potential to compromise the country’s security.  Fisheries PS Francis Owino accused the Kenya Coast Guards of interfering with the department’s mandate.    The PS told the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi to address the matter. “This is the time to bring this serious matter to fore and bring order to Kenya Coast Guards. The economic havoc they unleashed in Naivasha recently is out there for all to see,” said Dr Owino.  He made the remarks when he appeared before the committee that is considering audit reports for 2019/2020 financial year.  The recently created Kenya Coast Guards is responsible for law enforcement on the oceans, lakes and rivers. Its mandate includes maintaining maritime safety, security as well as pollution control and sanitation.  It recently came under scrutiny following an incident where a licensed fisherman was shot dead in Lake Naivasha.  Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo questioned why Kenyan fishermen were still being harassed even after the creation of the Kenya Coast Guard to offer protection.  He asked the PS if he was aware of harassment and extortion of fishermen by the Kenya Coast Guard. “When we enacted the Coast Guard Service Act, the Coast Guards were to help us protect fishermen from being arrested by other countries. But lately, they have become the greatest menace,” said Dr Amollo.  He said the officers confiscate boats and arrest fishermen before extorting even up to Sh20,000. “It appears the Coast Guard has usurped your role and defeated the basis of its establishment,” said the Rarieda MP.  The PS told the committee there was urgent need to define the roles of the two state agencies. “We are fully aware of the arrival of the Kenya Coast Guards. For the record, Coast Guard is domiciled in the State Department for Shipping and Maritime, and not Fisheries,” he said.  By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago