President Uhuru Kenyatta addressing during ODM NDC 2022 at Kasarani Stadium on February 26, 2022. [Boniface Okendo,Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday gave the boldest indication yet of his plan to manage his succession after securing the keys to steer Jubilee Party.  If ever there was suspicion that President Kenyatta was the architect of Azimio la Umoja and the One Kenya Alliance, those suspicions were cleared at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre  where he was at hand to unveil a resurgent party.  The underlining message in Uhuru’s speech was that the party of his reelection was not dead as his Deputy William Ruto had told the country.   Jubilee was alive, he said. It was working to deliver its pledges to the electorate. It was biding its time.  “ ...because we were silent as we went on with our work, some thought that our party had died. But today they say Jubilee is dead; Jubilee was given a mandate by Kenyans to lead. If there’s a party that has built roads more than 12000km; is it a dead party or we were working?” he posed.  He went on to list some of Jubilee’s achievements, among them construction of 12,000 kilometres of roads, grown the economy from Sh5 trillion to Sh11 trillion and taken Kenya from the 12 richest country in Africa to sixth.  ‘’Which other party has brought Kenya from the 12th to the 6th richest country in Africa. Without minerals, oil, gas — only with the sweat, good leadership and hard work of Kenyans,” he said.  But it was statements made by ODM party leader Raila Odinga and Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka which betrayed Uhuru’s plan for how his succession would happen.   Raila said Uhuru, despite having to retire after completing his two terms, still had something to offer the country.  Change and continuation  “Whatever will happen there will be change and continuation in government. Therefore, Uhuru is here as a Kenyan. He has a right to leave and even if he is not the president, he is very very capable to work for the people of Kenya in other capacities,” said Raila after he had said that their attempt with Uhuru to amend the Constitution was still alive.  Kalonzo, on the other hand, wanted Uhuru to take charge of the Azimio-One Kenya Alliance and be its leader.  Raila left his party’s NDC at  Kasarani Stadium to join Uhuru at KICC. He backed Uhuru’s statement that Ruto was aware that he and Raila were meeting on the day of the handshake.  “They said Jubilee was dead but it was merely sleeping,” said Raila. “Uhuru has been firm when part of the government is working and the other is sabotaging it. Uhuru has worked a lot. It is visible to anyone who can see. I am certain that if we are together, nothing can defeat us.”  Uhuru’s speech to his party delegates did not differ much from the one he gave at Sagana State Lodge three days ago. It was not so much a pitch for Raila as a case against his deputy. He denounced Ruto, painting him as a politician who put his presidential ambition ahead of the needs of Kenyans.  There was nothing wrong with having ambition, said Uhuru. “But ambition must be controlled. It cannot not be unbridled. Uncontrolled ambition is like having an unguided missile. At the end of the day, your personal ambitions cannot supersede the well being of 50 million people,” he said.  Uhuru noted that the leaders all had their own ambition which they had not let cloud the attempt to bring peace. He was referring to Raila, Kalonzo as well as Kanu chair Gideon Moi, who also attended the NDC.  This was a different Uhuru from one Kenyans have seen in the past few years. He was not angry. He danced to reggae, laughed heartily during Raila’s speech and he even copied Raila’s little jig when he invited the ODM leader to the stage.  It was Uhuru at his charming best. It was also a different Jubilee. Its anthem is harmonic, belted out by a choir and professing the party’s successful tenure.  Gideon said OKA had decided to work with people who share the same values and ideals.  “Once we’ve finished our structured dialogue as OKA, I plead with you that you do it in good faith and I plead that the outcome should be looked at in the prism of the Kenyan people,” he said.  Kalonzo said OKA was determined in ensuring that Kenya is one.  “We have started discussions with open hearts and open minds, only guided by the best interests of this nation,” he said.  He lamented that he had made sacrifices before and been branded a fool and indecisive.  “We will walk this journey with you. It took us time to accept the name Azimio-One Kenya Alliance but we have to give and take,” said Kalonzo.  Kalonzo also proposed that Uhuru takes leadership of the coalition. “We cannot afford to lose this election.”  Cyrus Jirongo said his and Gideon’s work was done after OKA agreed to work with Azimio.  “Gideon Moi and I have worked so hard to ensure that Azimio-One Kenya Alliance happens and we will produce one candidate through due process and we are all going to back them,” Jirongo said.  Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu urged Uhuru to share his wisdom and knowledge in running the government even when he retires. “Let nobody think that leadership is just like that and you go. You may go in August but you’ll still be around,” said Ngilu.  Women from Lamu, Mathare and Muranga told the delegates from a giant screen mounted above the stage how Jubilee had changed their lives.   “I got a job at the Lamu Port,” one woman said. Another one claimed that her life in Mathare had become easier.  Trio Mio, the teenage sensation whose song has become a sort of anthem for Deputy President William Ruto’s campaign, performed on stage.   “If we were elected together and you have decided that your role with be the opposition inside the government, I went to look for Baba, Wiper and Gideon so that they can help me fulfill my agenda. Where is the problem there?” Uhuru posed.  The president explained that he had been driven to work with Raila, like a man whose house is on fire would, go to a neighbour for help to put it out.  “Won’t you go to a neighbour to ask for water to put out the fire in your house. Especially if it was set by the inhabitants of that house,” said Uhuru.  By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 2 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 2 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 2 hours ago