Kenya Kwanza Alliance principles, ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi and Former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama during their rally in Naivasha on February 2, 2022 [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders have told the government to let Kenyans elect a president of their choice during the August 9 General Election.  Speaking in Kajiado County yesterday, the leaders also appealed to the government to ensure a level playing ground for all presidential candidates during the campaigns.  The leaders including Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) UDA chairman Johnston Muthama, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagwa and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki, further claimed that their opponents in Azimio La Umoja were being funded by the State.  They said it appears like State resources are being used to campaign and tilt scales for ODM leader Raila Odinga.   Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said: "I'm appealing to my friend President Uhuru Kenyatta, that he should not interfere with the electoral process by endorsing Raila. We want a free and fair election."  Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah, warned Raila against inciting the Maasai community on land issues.  "We heard Raila Odinga trying to incite the Maa community on land issues. Deputy President William Ruto is the only man who can protect the Maasai land from being grabbed, he is the only person who can address historical injustices about the matters touching pastoralists," said Ichung'wah.  Mudavadi claimed that the government was already laying in motion plans to rig the election by sponsoring a Bill to bring back manual voter identification and transmission of results.  "We have realized that the government has started to initiate plans to rig the election, we are appealing to all Members of Parliament associated to our alliance, to reject this Bill," he said.   By Josphat Thiong’o and Jacob Ng’etich | 11 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 19 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 20 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago