Chief Justice Martha Koome has directed judicial officers to conclude all pending hate speech cases within four months.  She further directed that all election related cases still pending in court be cleared by end of July.  It beats the purpose of justice if, say, an election case filed in 2017 is still pending in court only months to the 2022 General Election. It is instructive that the CJ gave the directive following complaints from the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) about the slow pace of cases in court. While the commission has taken a lot of flak for dragging its feet in bringing people accused of hate speech to justice, it turns out the Judiciary put them in that awkward position.  Not surprisingly, institutions like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) at some point claimed the Judiciary was slowing down the war against corruption through the sluggish pace of handling cases and granting of injunctions that subvert the wheels of justice.  The Judiciary has, however, undergone positive changes in recent years, but the speed by which cases are heard can be improved, and with it, the court’s reputation. NCIC and EACC are mandated to stand guard on behalf of citizens and ensure individuals accused of incitement and hate speech do not get clearance to vie for any elective position. Yet to do that, such individuals must have been found guilty by a court of law. In Kenya, one is assumed innocent until proven otherwise. To date, NCIC has about 49 cases of hate speech and some of the accused will be seeking election in the August polls. Should such individuals be allowed to vie, the courts will have failed Kenyans.  Understandably, there are some unscrupulous judicial officers and infrastructural challenges that impede work, but such impediments must be addressed to ensure that justice is served expeditiously. Justice delayed is justice denied.  By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Njoroge Kinuthia | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago