Bukusu elder David Daraja blessing Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa at Kananachi, Trans Nzoia. [Osinde Obare, Standard]  The Bukusu Cultural Council of Elders has disowned recent endorsement of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa to vie for governorship.  Council chairman Peter Masinde dismissed a section of elders who endorsed Dr Wamalwa as imposters.  On Monday, a group of elders led by David Daraja converged at Dr Wamalwa's Kananachi home and declared their support to the MP's quest to become the second governor of Trans Nzoia.  The elders, who teamed up with a section of religious leaders, also supported the political merger between FK, ANC and UDA. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa during a church service at AIPCA Kinamba, Naivasha. November 2021. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  "We have settled on you as our preferred candidate for the governor, and we support the decision by Moses Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi to team up with the Deputy President William Ruto," the elders said during the ceremony.  The group also told Luhya leaders allied to Azimio la Umoja to stop discrediting Wetang'ula and Mudavadi.  "We are asking allies of Azimio la Umoja from Western Kenya should stop discrediting Wetang'ula and Mudavadi. They have a right to associate with DP," said Daraja.  Yesterday, Masinde faulted the group of elders that endorsed Wamalwa.  "The council had settled on former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya as the preferred candidate of the council," said Masinde.  The elders claimed that Wamalwa and Ford Kenya party are hiding behind Kenya Kwanza alliance to hoodwink the residents to give the party a new lease of political life.  Former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  "The endorsement was executed without our consent and blessings. Those who conducted the ceremony are not the spokespersons of the council," said Masinde.  They vowed to discipline the elders who executed the endorsement.  By Jackline Inyanji | 20 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 22 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge and Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago