Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  It is a tough race for nine first-time MPs from Kisii and Nyamira counties who are out to defend their seats as seasoned politicians and a clique of professionals prepare their arsenal for August 9 polls.  Only four MPs out of 13 in the region made it back to Parliament in the 2017 general election.  In Gusii, more than 10 parties have cropped up and are marshalling grassroots support to frustrate dominant parties; ODM, Jubilee, and UDA. The current crop of MPs represents at least seven political parties. The 2017 general election presented a unique voting pattern in Kisii and Nyamira counties where first-time MPs won against veterans in a near 80 per cent victory.  The parliamentary elections in the two counties fuelled the long-held belief of a liberal region and a voting bloc that yearned for change at the time.    Some of the seasoned politicians cum former MPs who want to make a comeback include; Zepedeo Opore (Bonchari), Elijah Moindi (Nyaribari Masaba), Stephen Manoti (Bobasi), and Charles Geni (North Mugirango).  Sylvans Osoro of South Mugirango, a first-time MP came in through KNC, Bonchari MP Ooro Oyioka, who died in February, was elected on the People’s Democratic Party ticket defeating seasoned politician Zepedeo Opore and Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi retained his seat on a Jubilee ticket.  Richard Onyonka, a third-term MP, had decamped from ODM and managed to retain his seat on Ford Kenya party ticket. Richard Tongi of Nyaribari Chache was re-elected on a Jubilee ticket. Nyaribari Masaba’s Ezekiel Ombaki was elected for the first time on the National Agenda Party ticket.  Alpha Miruka of Bomachoge Chache, a first-time MP too defeated another seasoned politician; Simon Ogari through the Kenya National Congress.  Prof Zadoc Ogutu won as an independent candidate against the incumbent the late Joel Onyancha. Innocent Momanyi Obiri walked in through the People’s Democratic Party against all odds defeating the incumbent; long-time serving politician Stephen Manoti.  In Nyamira County, another first-time MP Shadrack Mose of Kitutu Masaba was elected on a Jubilee ticket. Ben Momanyi of Borabu retained the seat through Wiper Democratic Movement while Joash Nyamoko of North Mugirango and Vincent Kemosi of North Mugirango were elected for the first time on Jubilee and Ford Kenya party tickets respectively.  In Borabu in Nyamira, it will be a competition among previous aspirants with the incumbent; Ben Momanyi, having declared his interest in the seat.  In Nyaribari Masaba, MP Machogu has already announced his bid to succeed Governor James Ongwae. This paves way for another titanic battle in the constituency.   The MPs have been agitating for a change in Kisii politics, saying the region has been lagging behind economically because of the recycling of leaders.  South Mugirango MP Osoro believes that he has done enough to give him a second term in office.  By Harold Odhiambo | 29 minutes ago By Antony Gitonga | 41 minutes ago By Daniel Chege | 6 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 11 hours ago