Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders Deputy President William Ruto and ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi during a political rally at Ilgn'arua in Baringo south on February,13, 2022.[Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto returned to Kajiado County yesterday where he called for free and fair elections on August 9.  Ruto, who was accompanied by Kenya Kwanza leaders Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya, said relevant institutions should conduct credit polls.  They addressed rallies at Kimana market in Kajiado South, Poka Kenyawa and Kitengela town where they urged residents to support Kenya Kwanza.  “We assure you today no one will interfere with the polls under our watch,” said the DP. Ruto, at the same time, said Kenyans should be allowed to exercise their democratic rights unhindered.     “Its your patriotic duty to vote and choose the right leader. Do not allow anyone to choose for you,” he said.  He maintained that his role as deputy president is to ensure the government achieves its development objectives.  “We were to create jobs and initiate projects. I am telling you that has not stopped. Once I get to State House, I will fulfil all of our campaign promises,” he told residents in Kitengela.  “The competition in this election is not like a fashion contest. It is between those who have been selected by the government and those selected by the people,” he added.  The DP said his bottom-up economic model will unlock the youths potential.  “I am here today to promise that if you elect us to form the next government, we will organise to have every Kenyan register for the National Health Insurance Fund. My government will pay for those who cant afford,” said Ruto.  He said 90 per cent of the promises Jubilee made to the people of Kajiado have been fulfilled. He said what’s remaining would be completed starting next year.  The DP said the government had constructed roads and connected households to electricity in Kajiado.  “We promised you infrastructure, electricity and water. You have all witnessed that we have done something,” he said.  The DP accused his detractors of working day and night to stop him from succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta. “What will they do to me?” he posed?  “I am requesting you that we move together in this journey to State House,” he added. Mudavadi said: “We joined Ruto because we realised we have similar ideas. We are going to make sure we push the ideas until we defeat them.”  Wetang’ula appealed to the Maasai community to support the DP’s presidential bid.  “I know William Ruto is your friend of many years. Therefore, what I request is that you support him. Do not abandon him during his hour of need. I’m sure you will stand with him,” he said.  In the past few weeks, Ruto, whose strategists consider Kajiado a favourable county, has intensified political forays in the county.   By Jacinta Mutura | 25 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 25 minutes ago By Harold Odhiambo and Eric Abuga | 25 minutes ago By Phares Mutembei | 25 minutes ago