Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi during an interview with 'The Standard' in Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi yesterday launched his re-election bid with a promise to complete all development projects his administration has initiated while launching new ones.  At the same time, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said that Mr Muriithi was best suited to succeed ODM leader Raila Odinga if he wins the presidential election in August.  “I urge the people of Mt Kenya to choose a leader who will take over from Raila. Please vote wisely so you can reclaim the presidency in the future,” he said.  The governor will be seeking election on a Party of National Unity (PNU) ticket in the August 9 General Election. PNU party is allied to the Azimio La Umoja movement of ODM leader Raila Odinga. The movement that is backed by President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to face off with Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA).  Muriithi who was elected in the last polls as an independent candidate promised to improve on infrastructure, agriculture, create more jobs, and enhance water provision among other projects.  Speaking during a public rally at Marmanet town in Laikipia West, the governor asked residents to give him another term so he can complete the projects he started.  “I promised to develop Laikipia and that is what I want the people to judge me with. I ask you to look at my development record,” said the governor.  Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi (center) with his wife Maria Mbeneka in Nyahururu town, February 2022. [Courtesy]  He said he has, for the last five years, put the county on the national map with the development projects he has initiated.  “We have better roads and more residents can now access water. These are major milestones to the people of Laikipia,” said Muriithi.  He said he will continue to support Raila ahead of the August 9 elections.  “This is the leader that I fully support as we head into the elections. I want us to walk this journey together. Raila is the one we believe will take the country forward,” the governor said.  He was flanked by various MPs among them Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Kanini Kega (Kieni), and Babu Owino (Embakasi East). Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina and Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, who were also present, pledged their support for the governor who is also the chairman of Raila Odinga’s campaign team.  “This is a leader we have worked with and for sure, you have the best. Laikipia has developed so much due to his leadership,” said Kioni.  The MP supported Raila’s bid saying the ODM leader would unite the country under the Azimio movement.  “The time has come for us to vote for a leader who will unite Kenya and her people. Let us not vote along tribal lines. Raila is the only leader who will unite this country and ensure peace and development,” said Kioni.  By Denis Kabaara | 6 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and Yvonne Chepkwony | 6 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 9 hours ago