ODM leader Raila Odinga during the party's NDC at Kasarani. February 26, 2022. [Samson Wire, Standard]  ODM is facing an internal crisis after some leaders differed over nomination ahead of the August 9 election.  The Orange party’s National Executive Council on Thursday endorsed four ways of picking aspirants, which also received the backing of the National Delegates Congress.   The NDC approved the use of consensus, direct nomination, identification of candidates through voting by delegates and universal suffrage, through which ODM members would vote for their preferred candidate.  However, the NEC noted they favour consensus while direct nomination would be the last resort. ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho and director of elections Junet Mohammed represent a group of young politicians who support direct nomination and consensus.  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and a number of senior officials are rooting for universal suffrage.  During the National Governing Council meeting at Bomas in Nairobi, Junet pitched for direct nomination.  “If one has been identified scientifically (through opinion polls) they should get a direct ticket,” the Suna East MP told delegates.  Political acrimony  But Oparanya said direct nomination could cause political acrimony.  He explained that the nomination process ODM adopts was crucial since it could make or break the party.   “Make sure every member who wants to contest for any seat is given fair nomination. As leaders we must be fair,” said Oparanya.  During a recent tour of western Kenya by some Azimio la Umoja leaders, the division was evident when Governors Oparanya (Kakamega), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Wilbur Otichilo (Vihiga) and a number of MPs skipped the campaigns led by Joho, Junet and Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina.  The Western ODM governors were unhappy with the high profile role of some members and the exclusion of others.  Asked why he did not attend the meetings, Oparanya said he was busy.  Aspirants are already jostling for the party ticket, especially those eyeing the governor's seat. ODM will have a challenge in identifying candidates in Busia, Siaya, Kisumu, Kisii, Homa Bay and Mombasa given that party stalwarts have declared interest in the seats.  The candidates, who are Raila allies, will present a nightmare for the party should it opt for direct nomination.  In Homa Bay, the race to succeed Cyprian Awiti has attracted ODM chair John Mbadi, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and deputy governor Hamilton Orata.  Consensus or direct nomination could cause the fallout in high-stake contests such as Mombasa governorship.   By Special Correspondent | 35 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 35 minutes ago By Denis Kabaara | 35 minutes ago By Too Jared | 4 hours ago