Former Budalangi MP Ababu Namwamba resigns as Foreign Affairs CAS to focus on DP William Ruto campaigns. [File, Standard]  Ababu Namwamba has resigned as Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS), effective February 10, 2022.  He made the announcement at a press conference in Nairobi on Thursday.  His resignation comes a day after he was appointed to head international affairs duties in Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential campaign secretariat.  "I thank the president for the appointment, but it is time to vacate the seat. We have accomplished so much. During this four-year period, we have had an amazing time," he said. While announcing Namwmba’s appointment in the deputy president’s team, Ruto’s presidential campaigns Director of Communications, Hussein Mohamed, said Namwamba, 46, was tapped for the new role because of his experience in diplomacy.  According to a Wednesday, February 9 statement by Mohamed, Ruto said he was “confident” in Namwamba’s ability to deliver in the new role.  “We have worked closely with Ababu over the past ten years on many fronts, and I have come to value his leadership, experience, focus and empathy. It is because of those qualities that I could not be more grateful to have him in our campaign team,” Ruto was quoted as saying.  “With his considerable diplomatic talents, deep knowledge of the continent, strong network on the global stage and unwavering determination, I am confident in his role within my presidential campaign,” added the deputy president.  Namwamba, who served as Budalangi Member of Parliament between 2007 and 2017, was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as Foreign Affairs ministry CAS in January 2018.  He unsuccessfully attempted to defend his seat on Labour Party Ticket in the 2017 polls, losing out to ODM candidate Raphael Wanjala.  Namwamba is on the record saying he would root for Ruto’s presidential candidature in the upcoming polls.  By Erastus Mulwa | 45 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 55 minutes ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 9 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 9 hours ago