Water and Irrigation Principal Secretary Joseph Wairagu with Athi Water CEO Mwangi Thuita at Kiunyu market in Gatanga during the inspection of a water project. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Most of the 150 water projects worth Sh10 billion in Murang'a County will be completed this year.  Water and Irrigation Principal Secretary Joseph Wairagu wa Maii said some of the projects will be ready between March and July, and others by the end of the year.  Speaking during an inspection tour on Friday, the principal secretary said the cluster projects were initiated on the orders of President Uhuru Kenyatta following an outcry over water shortages in the source county. Murang'a is the main source of water supplied to Nairobi residents.  Accompanied by Mwangi Thuita who heads the Athi Water Works Development Agency and Gitonga Mugambi of the National Irrigation Authority (NIA), the PS said Mirichu Mulika and Nyanjigi irrigation projects received a lifeline and are nearing completion after years of false starts. Nyanjigi in Kangema was initiated by the late minister John Michuki decades ago.  “This project will bring the percentage of the population supplied with piped water to 85 per cent up from 52 per cent in 2017. Ithanga Water Project funded by the Belgium Government will be completed in a year as the contractors are working in the last phase,” said the principal secretary.  The Githembe Irrigation Project at Sh10.6 million in Kigumo constituency is designed to irrigate 50 acres of land, and is set to be commissioned next month.  Create employment  Gitonga said the project, once completed, will generate almost Sh200,000 per acre to the beneficiaries, and also create employment.  “The nearby schools and public utilities will be supplied with water from the boreholes,” said Gitonga.  Boboti/Kiamande irrigation project in Kandara of Sh8.4 million will benefit 150 households in Ithiru ward.  Wairagu is among the public servants expected to exit civil service this week (on Wednesday, February 9) after expressing their interest to vie for elective posts. He is eyeing the Murang’a governor race to succeed Mwangi wa Iria. Others in the race are Joshua Toro who chairs NIA, Senator Irung'u Kang'ata, former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau and Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege.  By Boniface Gikandi | 12 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 12 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 4 days ago By Jane Mugambi | 4 days ago