One Kenya Alliance principles - ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi and Former Machakos Senator Jonstone Muthama during their rally in Naivasha, Nakuru on January 3, 2022. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza Alliance has demanded that ODM leader Raila Odinga declares publicly that he will accept the outcome of the August 9 General Election if he loses.  ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula yesterday campaigned in Naivasha, accompanied by UDA allies. Mudavadi sustained his purge on Raila, as he revealed why he fell out with One Kenya Alliance and joined forces with Deputy President William Ruto.  “Azimio is a government project for a few who are after self-preservation. In the beginning, I thought OKA was the right one, until I realised it was a subsidiary of Azimio,” said Mudavadi.  Wetang’ula, the Bungoma Senator, reiterated Kenya Kwanza’s aim to enhance unity and love among Kenyans beyond their ethnic orientations. He faulted the government for policies he termed unfriendly to investors, some who he said had been forced to leave the country.   “Naivasha has been one of the biggest municipal economies in Kenya. It has, however, been brought down by bad policies that have forced investors like Karuturi to flee to Ethiopia,” said Wetang’ula.  Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa challenged Raila to declare that he would accept poll results regardless of the candidate that carries the day in the August polls, to avert chaos.  “Raila has a history of ever rejecting election results. We want a firm unequivocal assurance to Kenyans that he will accept poll results if Ruto or any other person beats him at the ballot,” said Mr Ichung’wa.  Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said they would lead their followers to support the government that carries the day to ensure unity prevails. “If Kenya Kwanza loses, we will peacefully go home. For Raila, we know that he will organise parallel swearing in and pockets of violence. If this will not be the case, he should make it known as early as now,” said Mr Murkomen, adding that Rift Valley leaders would not allow electoral differences to lead to chaos. “We have a peace pact that never again shall Kenyans shed blood because of an election.”  Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot echoed Murkomen’s sentiments.  By Peterson Githaiga | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 7 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 17 hours ago