Kenya Film and Classification Board acting CEO Christopher Wambua when he banned the 147-minute drama-comedy film of Indian origin titled Badhaai Do saying its a gay-themed. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha recently stirred the hornet’s nest with a remark about homosexuals in schools. Reactions were varied – some bordering on the uncouth.  Before the dust settled, the Kenya Film and Classification Board (KFCB) banned a film for promoting same sex unions. Board CEO Christopher Wambua said Baadhai Do influences viewers to believe homosexuality is normal.  The film is prohibited from distribution, possession, exhibition or broadcasting. Many others like Rafiki, I’m Samuel, Fifty shades of Grey, Wolf of Wall Street, Stories of Our Lives and This is the End have suffered the same fate for running counter to Kenya’s values. The zeal to wipe out “sinful” sex-related content is justifiable in a country that detests homosexuality. According to a recent Pew Global Attitudes Project finding, 97 per cent of Kenyans disapprove of it, and the creative industries is thus an easy target in this salvo.    The eventual fear, however, is that we could be killing instead of building Kenya’s budding film industry in the name of defending twisted versions of truth, culture, morality and values. Moral correctness isn’t always the same as being law-abiding or on point.    The urgency to ban films, documentaries, TV dramas and music - however justified - must be tempered with real efforts to support artistes to the hilt. We are yet to see bold efforts at making the Kenyan film industry shine. The overregulation overdrive by overbearing entities will only kill the seeding ground of this lucrative industry. Music Copyright Society of Kenya places Kenya’s entertainment worth at more than Sh200 billion. It can grow in leaps and bounds if not for unintended consequences of regulation that seem to stifle the enterprise of artistes, sponsors and media firms.  While we’ve every reason to discourage porno and blatant content that can lead to violence, polarisation, radicalisation and sexual deviancy, we much resists government overreach. In the words of hip-hop star Jay Z, we change people through conversation, not censorship. The US film industry has vast influence. Nigeria and South Africa are on track.  We must allow ours to experiment and stretch the limits. A good starting point is reviewing the Films and Stage Plays Act, Cap 32 and KFCB rules that run counter to basic free speech principles and artistic creativity.  For the record, protection of children from harmful content is best done by parents and guardians. The State can regulate but does it have ultimate power on choices? We can’t always gag content creators in pursuit of appropriateness for viewership or listenership. As a society, we’ve the powers to influence children’s behaviours. It’s not entirely about the content, who creates it and which medium delivers it. It smacks of dishonesty when films seen to be pro-LGBTQ rights are targeted more than those that promote more nauseating social ills.   In the recent past, we’ve seen videos of drunk students engaging in sex orgies. The culprits, including crews of matatus that ferry them, have been let free without even a slap on the wrist. Let the State not just ban creative works but engage artistes, appreciate their challenges and hold their hands for better outcomes.   The writer is an editor at The Standard. Twitter: @markoloo  By Isaac Kalua | 10 hours ago By Koki Muli | 10 hours ago By Simon Wafubwa  | 10 hours ago By Luke Metelerkamp  | 1 day ago