President Uhuru Kenyatta speaks during a new year luncheon hosted for Members of Parliament at State House, Nairobi. [Courtesy]  President Uhuru Kenyatta's ruling Jubilee Party has called for a National Delegates Convention (NDC) later this month to change its constitution and approve new seal, symbol and flag of the party.  At the same time the President has invited Jubilee MPs for a meeting at State House, Nairobi, tomorrow.  "I wish to invite you to a Jubilee Party consultative meeting, with our party leader H E Uhuru Kenyatta, at State House Nairobi, on Friday February 4, at 9 am," read the invite sent out to MPs by National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya.  According to a letter signed by Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju, they will use the NDC to also review and formulate party policies. "Take notice that Pursuant to Article 7.1:1 and 7.1:2 of the Jubilee Party Constitution, the National Delegates Convention, will be held on February 25 and 26, at KICC beginning from 10.00 a.m," read the notice by Tuju to the party members.  Tuju noted that the agenda of the meeting will be to amend, review and ratify proposed changes to Jubilee Party Constitution to comply with electoral laws along side other matters.  This will be the second NDC held by Jubilee after it met before the 2017 General Election during the amalgamation of the 11 parties into the monolithic party.  Jubilee Coalition Joint Parliamentary Group Secretary and Eldas MP Adan Keynan, said the the NDC was timely, and was a major relief to party members who might have been disllusioned by the past postponement.  "The opportunity has finally availed itself to reorganise, rebrand and rejuvenate our party in readiness for the polls," Keynan said.  "The two days will be adequate time to resolve all pending internal matters including ratification of critical decisions from the National Executive Committee, and the Party National Management Committee," he added.  Sources indicated that the NDC is also expected to kick out Deputy President William Ruto as the Jubilee Party's deputy party leader.    In 2019, Ruto allies were removed from senior positions in the party including Deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany, and a number of members that sat at the National Executive Council (NEC).  The party  has also created a new designed logo, dropping all colours associated with United Republican Party (URP), which had joined hands with The National Alliance (TNA) among other parties to form Jubilee Party in 2016.  The new Jubilee Party logo, forwarded to Kenya Industrial Property Institute (KIPI) for trademarking, has a dove in place of clasped hands and is red and white in colour. The initial, Jubilee colours were red, yellow, black and white.  Also to be affected is the party's motto 'Tuko Pamoja' has now been changed to 'Mbele Pamoja'.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 4 hours ago