President Uhuru Kenyatta at Sagana State Lodge during a past meeting with Mt Kenya delegates. [Kibata Kihu, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to meet clerics and Central community leaders at Sagana State Lodge on Wednesday to explain his move to back ODM leader Raila Odinga.  The Standard has learnt that the government administration, clergy and youth leaders are inviting those who will attend the event.  Murang’a Bishop’s Forum chairperson Stephen Maina said he had been tasked with making the invites in Murang’a County for those who will represent other spiritual leaders.   Although he did not disclose the number of people he was tasked to invite, multiple sources have intimated that about 30,000 people from across all sectors are expected at the event.  Bishop Maina of Full Time Winners Gospel Church said part of the agenda will be unity and an explanation by the President on why he fell out with his Deputy William Ruto, plus a candid discussion on the political way forward for Mt Kenya region.  “The meeting is long overdue. The President, who is still our kingpin, will update the region on the political discourse between him and Ruto, and his new dalliance with Raila. The attendants, who are leaders, will then spread the message to the community before Uhuru rolls out a mission to visit the locals,” Maina said.  Magochi Murathi, a youth leader, said he had been tasked to mobilise youth for last Saturday, but the meeting was pushed to Wednesday since the President was out of the country.  “The youth are the easier targets by politicians and the meeting between the President and the youth will be a major breakthrough to demystify political propaganda that has been peddled to them by the President’s critics,” said Mr Murathi.   Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said the meeting would be consultative on the economy and political status of Mt Kenya region, which he said forms a basic factor in Kenyan politics.  The governor, who also chairs the Azimio la Umoja’s campaign secretariat, said the President would take the opportunity to explain his political alliance with Raila.  Muriithi said the Mt Kenya region could not be underestimated in succession politics due to its numerical voting strength.  “We are looking forward for consultation on the status of economy and politics, and the future of our country. ... the region is a significant portion of the national economy, and as a body we have close to 6 million votes,” he said.  Raila, under the Azimio la Umoja movement, and Ruto, who is riding on the Kenya Kwanza banner, are battling for the control of the region’s votes ahead of the August 9 elections.   By Moses Nyamori | 50 minutes ago By Barrack Muluka | 1 hour ago By Patrick Beja | 8 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 8 hours ago