A video grab of EALA MP Florence Jematia.  Police are hunting for the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) member Florence Jematia over alleged incitement remarks she made during a public meeting in Mochongoi ward.  Baringo County Commissioner Abdirizak Jaldesa said two other local politicians have already recorded statements.   Mr Jaldesa said Jematia who refused to honor summons by the county security committee over the remarks made on Sunday at a meeting that was attended by Governor Stanley Kiptis and a Cabinet Secretary.  “She has gone underground after we summoned her to appear before the committee. We have sufficient evidence to charge her with incitement to violence,” Jeldesa said. According to authorities, Jematia allegedly told residents of Mochongoi in Baringo south constituency to raise funds to purchase firearms.  She is alleged to have said that the government funds said are not helping anyone as a result of insecurity.  Jaldesa said the security team interrogated Baringo south parliamentary aspirant Joseph Tarus and Philemon Kibet alias Masaa, who has declared his interest to contest the Kabartonjo seat.  The two politicians spend the better part of the day at the county headquarters where they were later directed to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to record their statement.  Police reports indicated that the trio were among local leaders who held a public meeting in Mochongoi trading center on Sunday, January 30 where they made the alleged remarks.  “We were summoned here by the security committee. We have been waiting since morning to hear what they have against us,” Mr Tarus told The Standard about his presence at the regional headquarters.  Kibet said he was not aware of the allegations against him but acknowledged that the summons might have to do with the meeting he attended in Mochogoi.  “I am waiting to hear from the security team what the summons are all about. I attended the meeting in Mochongoi,” he said.  Earlier, Governor Kiptis was seen at the regional headquarters where he held a short meeting with the county commissioner before he left.  Asked if his visit has something to do with the summons issued to the politicians, Mr Kiptis answered in the negative.  “I am not here because of the summons. I came here for other matters,” he said before leaving.  The meeting was attended by Governor Stanley Kiptis, Woman Mp Gladwell Cheruiyot, Baringo south Mp Charles Kamuren, Baringo north's William Cheptumo,  Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui and several members of the county assembly.  The meeting followed a series of attacks where bandits have killed four people in the past month.   The attackers from a neighboring community have caused havoc in Mochogoi ward, stealing livestock and torching houses.  On January 7, bandits attacked Kisumet village in Bartabwa, Baringo North, and killed Kipkenei Kimurio, 65.  The man was attacked as he cooked his evening meal.  On January 4, bandits attacked Yatia in the same sub-county, killing herder Vincent Tuwit, 24.  On December 11 last year, AP officer David Omondi was shot dead in Chepkesin, Baringo North. He was with his colleagues on a routine security patrol.  By Robert Kiplangat | 4 hours ago By Caroline Chebet | 4 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 4 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 4 hours ago