KANU Secretary General Nick Salat (2nd left) and Chairman Gideon Moi (2nd right) addressing the media at Kabarnet Gardens in Nairobi on February 9, 2022. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The Kanu National Executive Council (NEC) has reaffirmed its commitment to the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) as its coalition of choice.  The party’s NEC also gave chairman Gideon Moi the mandate to initiate structured and honest dialogue with other political formations ahead of the April 9 deadline.  However, Secretary General Nick Salat who read the resolutions yesterday after a meeting at Kabarnet Gardens said any political formations seeking an alliance can only work with the party as an equal partner, and nothing less. “We fully adopt the resolutions of the National Delegates Conference that unanimously endorsed Gideon Moi as the sole presidential candidate of the party. So far, he has steered Kanu in the right direction and we firmly believe in his leadership,” said Salat.    Salat said they chose OKA since its ideals, values and principles are aligned to those of the party.  Further, NEC guaranteed Kanu members that their interests will be catered for within the coalition and that they will retain and guard the part’s identity.  “We assure our supporters that we will will no longer be on the fringes of coalition and presidential politics,” Salat added.  NEC told aspirants seeking the party’s tickets that its methodology of electoral mapping will take into account their interests to ensure the party retains and gains the maximum from the forthcoming elections.  “Having been fully validated by the respective organs of the party, the NEC hereby adopts the party manifesto, which will be our Back to Business blueprint, outlining our vision and plan of actions for Kenya,” said Salat.  The Secretary General added: “In the coming days, we will officially unveil our manifesto and demonstrate our roadmap towards restoring the decency of living within our borders and international partners going forward.”  By Olivia Odhiambo and Isaiah Gwengi | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Dominic Omondi | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago