DRC Senator has called out DP Ruto over his 'no cows' remarks. [Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto has been the topic of discussion on Twitter for the better part of this Tuesday evening after remarks he made at a past event surfaced online.  This was after one of the Democratic Republic of Congo’s (DRC) senators, Francine Muyumba, lambasted him over the remarks he made about the central African nation.  From the dress code and setting where the utterances on the video were made, Ruto made the remarks on Monday, during his visit to dairy farmers in Nyeri.  In the 15-second video, the DP is seen addressing people at a past UDA function. He was explaining the demand for milk in the DRC saying they have no single cow. “…3 billion litres. They have an estimated population of 90 million people with no single cow. In DRC, these people who sing… I don’t know they (sic) they are called Kanda Bongo man….” He said in Swahili tickling ribs in the process.  But his remarks did not sit well with Muyumba, who took to her verified Twitter account to give the world a piece of her mind.  She termed the DP’s utterances as ‘unacceptable’ and demanded the withdrawal of the statement.  “If #DRC did not have a single cow how could #KENYA signe (sic) economic deals with #DRC, @EquityBCDC is currently making money in Congo, this is an insult,” she captioned the video.   “We are friends to #KENYA, A candidate running for the highest office of the Country @WilliamsRuto need to be diplomatically conscience as KENYA need to strengthen economic ties in the region for Kenya’s internal Economic growth. KenyaAirway is now flying in some of our big cities”,  said the senator.  As of 8 pm, the Deputy President had not responded or commented on the issue.  However, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen who is also one of Ruto’s right-hand men responded in the comment section, saying that the 35-year-old Congolese lawmaker and activist were over-reacting.  “Relax Madam Ambassador, that’s just like saying Kenya has no single singer because the good ones are in Congo Kinshasha. You are overreacting!...” Murkomen tweeted at 5:13 pm.  On Monday, Ruto visited dairy farmers in Nyeri had discussions with his supporters and promised to sign a charter with them.  “We will then sign a charter with the people of Nyeri and each of the 47 counties after the discussions. We want to be held accountable for what we agree with each county. Our word is our bond. Our team led by economist David Ndii is on the ground,” he tweeted afterwards.  By Amos Kareithi | 25 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 25 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 25 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 25 minutes ago