Reinstated Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Reinstated Wajir Governor Abdi Mohamud has urged the National Treasury, the Controller of Budget and Central Bank of Kenya to temporarily freeze all expenditure by the county during the two-week transition period.  Mr Mohamud said the freeze would allow for scrutiny of the hand-over reports and preliminary audits.  “The objective of this request is to preserve public funds and resources during the transition period before I resume office at the end of the month,” he said.  Mohamud said he would call for the first Cabinet meeting on March 11 to ensure service delivery to the people.   On Tuesday, a three-bench judge at the Meru High Court reinstated the embattled governor after a nine-month court battle.   The judges, Edward Murithi, Patrick J Otieno and Thripsisa Cherere concluded that the impeachment of the governor was null and void.  The judges ruled that the swearing-in of Ahmed Mukhtar as the Governor of Wajir and consequent appointment of Hashim Musa as deputy governor was null and void.  Governor Mukhtar was ordered to go back to his office as deputy governor.  The judges said the county assembly failed to conduct public participation.  The governor should be reinstated to his office for a smooth handover, the judges  declared.  The county boss should resume office on March 10.  “I will henceforth embark on receiving hand-over reports from the respective departments of the county,” he said.  Noting that handing over was a process, he said he expect departmental reports by CECS and Chief Officers to be given to him during this transitional period.  Service delivery  He said this was important for smooth operations and service delivery.  The governor thanked the Judiciary for speedily concluding the case despite numerous challenges and in setting an important threshold for the removal of a governor from office.  He said this was a win for not only the people of Wajir but also devolution at large.  “It is also victory for all the current and future governors who might face similar political antagonism,” he said.  Mohamud said the landmark judgment issued will go a long way in guiding county assemblies and the Senate on how to properly conduct impeachment proceedings and to avoid victimising governors through “the law of the jungle”.  By Josphat Thiong’o | 13 hours ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 1 day ago By Elvince Joshua | 4 days ago By Mireri Junior | 6 days ago