Governors: Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Dr. Alfred Mutua (Machakos) during a political rally at Makindu, Makueni County on February 16, 2022, while popularising Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja movement. [Stephen Nzioka, Standard]  Three Ukambani governors yesterday started campaigns to popularise Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja Movement and his presidential bid in lower Eastern.    Governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) started the campaigns in Makindu Township, Kibwezi West Constituency, Makueni County.  The rallies have been incorporated with inspection of development projects. Addressing farmers after inspecting Makueni integrated grain value addition plant in Makindu, the governors appealed to Kenyans to elect development-oriented leaders in the August 9, General Election.  They accused Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka of allegedly holding the region hostage for personal gain.      “Even though it is time to politic, we will not only hold political gatherings but also demonstrate the projects we have done and how devolution has changed the livelihoods of our people,” said Prof Kibwana.   The Makueni governor said their decision to support Raila and Azimio la Umoja Movement was based on his track record in fighting for devolution and democracy.  “We are leading our people to support Raila because he was part of the success associated with former President Mwai Kibaki and also his sacrifice in fighting for democracy and freedom of Kenyans,” he said.  The trio said although Kalonzo had served in government for a long time there is little to show.  They vowed to lead residents to support Azimio la Umoja Movement and Raila’s presidential bid for the benefit of the community.  “We have seen Raila’s influence in development in Nyanza when he was the prime minister in 2008, but the former vice president has nothing to show in our region,” said Mutua.   Ms Ngilu said the presidential contest was a two-horse race between the ODM leader and Deputy President William Ruto.  However, she claimed that Ruto was against change and devolution and dismissed Ruto’s bottom up model and said Raila’s pledge of Sh6,000 stipend to the poor was achievable.  Ngilu claimed that Kalonzo’s presidential bid cannot attract the support of majority of Kenyans. “The horse race has started but there is another one lagging behind waiting to be convinced, we will not do that but as a community, we are soldering forward without that person.”  The governors were accompanied by several local leaders eyeing various elective seats. They are expected to take their campaign to Machakos before attending National Delegates Conference for Muungano and Narc parties at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi tomorrow.   On Saturday, the governors will head to Kitui to inspect several projects and address rallies.  By Winfrey Owino | 7 days ago By Peterson Githaiga | 8 days ago By Mireri Junior | 10 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 12 days ago