Nominated Senator Beth Mugo husband Amb Nicholas Mugo’s service at the Kariokor Hindu crematorium in Nairobi on February 04, 2022. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  Nominated Senator Beth Mugo’s husband, Ambassador Nicholas Muratha Mugo, was today interred at Nairobi’s Kariokor Crematorium in a private ceremony only attended by close family members.  The businessman and former diplomat died from complications of prostate cancer and was sent off in a brief ceremony that lasted about ten minutes.  Among those in attendance at the ceremony were the former diplomat’s wife Senator Mugo, Mama Ngina Kenyatta, Muhoho Kenyatta and other close family members.   Some family members had arrived at the venue about two hours earlier and received the body at 1:35pm.  A short service and prayers were held for family members, and by 2pm, the furnace was switched on signaling the end of the brief ceremony led by Anglican Church Bishop, Francis Muratha.  “Sometimes we ask ourselves if what has happened makes sense, by taking one of us like what has happened to ambassador Mugo. However, we must encourage ourselves that God still makes sense,” said Bishop Muratha.  “The bible tells us in John 11 that resurrection and eternal life are represented in His person. He is the source of resurrection and eternal life and the reason that these are possible for heavenly father’s children,” added the Bishop.  After the short service, some family members were requested to escort the casket to the electric furnace for the final process.  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s cousin, Kung’u Muigai, said more details would be shared during a church service tomorrow.  “Everything will be addressed during the service on Sunday at home in Kitisuru,” said Kung’u, who is also the family spokesperson.  Another family member who travelled from Mombasa said he was informed of Mugo’s passing on Friday and decided to make the first stop at the crematorium as had been communicated to family members.  “The service had been set for 11am but the time was changed to afternoon, probably to allow some few dignitaries to join us. Mugo had been unwell,” said the family member.  Ambassador Mugo died aged 86 at Nairobi Hospital on Thursday morning after a long illness. His wife, nominated Senator Beth Mugo, confirmed his demise in a statement.  Mugo served as an ambassador in several countries including France and Yugoslavia. He was also a Kenyan delegate to the United Nations General Assembly in 1968 and 1969.  In his message to the family, President Uhuru described the late Mugo as a patriotic and dedicated person who was among Kenyans that played a leading role in laying a firm foundation for the country’s progress.  “He was able to represent our nation as a diplomat in the United Kingdom and later at the UN General Assembly where, together with other Kenyans, he effectively represented Kenya’s interests in the global arena,” President Kenyatta said.  Former President Mwai Kibaki in a statement mourned Mugo as an experienced envoy and devoted public servant who served the country with visible distinction.  A staff at the crematorium told The Saturday Standard that it takes about three hours for processing to be completed and the electric furnace to be switched off.  Mugo’s cremation at Kariokor Crematorium comes one month after the first native Attorney General, Charles Njonjo, was interred. Njonjo, who passed on January 1, aged 102, had left instructions on how he would be interred.   By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 10 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 12 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and Daniel Chege | 15 hours ago