Deputy President William Ruto and other leaders during his visit to Meru on Tuesday. [George Kaimenyi, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto’s campaign secretariat has provided details of his 10-day visit to the United States of America and the United Kingdom.  DP Ruto’s International Relations Advisor Ababu Namwamba said the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party leader would be in Washington, D.C. and London honouring invites by senior government officials and top policy institutes.  While there, the DP will share his thoughts on foreign policy, democracy and governance, and expound his economic vision for Kenya and Africa, a statement sent from Ruto’s campaign secretariat said.  “Kenya remains a stable regional anchor State and a valued member of the global community, and the Deputy President's trip seeks to further strengthen ties with the country's traditional friends and partners,” said Ababu. In the US, Ababu said Ruto will hold a discussion with Jake Sullivan US Government National Security Council (NSC) Advisor, US Defence officials as well as the State Department.  “He will also speak at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, and at the University of Arizona's Washington Entrepreneurship Hub,” the statement said.  Ruto’s meeting with US military and security officers is telling, especially as he mounts a campaign to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The USA leg of the trip will conclude with a meeting with Kenyans in the diaspora.  In London, Ruto will meet senior UK officials and visit the National Counter-Terrorism Centre.  He will also speak at the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Royal Institute of International Affairs, also known as Chatham House.  He will also engage Kenyans in the UK and later pay a courtesy call on the Archbishop of Canterbury, His Grace Justin Welby.     By Elvince Joshua | 5 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 7 hours ago By Titus Too | 8 hours ago By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 8 hours ago