A court official is said to have served proceedings to a dead woman in a case pitting three families over a piece of prime land in Nakuru City. [File]  A court official is said to have served proceedings to a dead woman in a case pitting three families over a piece of prime land in Nakuru City.  The land initially allocated to the late Florence Nduta and the late Florence Wambui in 1985 as a charcoal space, is now worth Sh40 million after the two families constructed rental houses and shops.  According to Samuel Ndung'u, Nduta's son, the property case proceeded until judgment was entered in 2019, without their knowledge.  He told Environment and Land Court Judge Justice Njoroge Mwangi that after perusing the court file, he found documents and affidavits of services purported to have been served to her mother Nduta, between 2014 and 2019. “We were surprised to see that a process server filed an affidavit of service purporting to have served my dead mother," he said.   Ndung'u produced her mother's death certificate that showed she died on August 16, 2004.  Court records seen by The Saturday Standard showed the case by Teresia Wangari and Sammy Mwangi, children of late Nakuru businessman Gachoka Kahawa, was filed against Nduta and Wambui in 2014.  "The case was filed 10 years after my mother's death but records erroneously read she was being served with court proceedings," submitted Ndung'u.  He accused the siblings of obtaining a May 22, 2019 judgment by deceit and misrepresentation.  The judgment by Environment and Land Court Judge Justice Dalmas Ohungo favoured the siblings and ordered the eviction of Nduta and Wambui's family from the plot.  Mr Ohungo had ordered Nduta and his family to vacate the land within 40 days or be evicted and restrained from accessing or disposing of the land.  He declared Wangari and her brother Mwangi legal owners of the property.  However, Wambui's son Wilson Mwathi who lives in the plots said he was not aware of the judgment and found out there was an eviction notice when he saw vehicles and men on his compound, a day to eviction.  "There were heavy vehicles outside the plot. We enquired and we were informed there was an eviction notice. We later saw a story published in The Standard Newspaper," he said.  He added that it was clear that there was a ploy by the siblings to illegally evict them after they misled the court.  Mwathi said the two families are entitled to the property because they have lived on it for over 12 years without interference.  Nduta and Wambui, who were friends were allocated the land by the municipality of Nakuru.  While Mwathi and Ndung'u insist they are the owners, Wangari claims they bought the property in 1992.  The three families have been fighting over the plot for 37 years.  Wangari testified on January 26 this year, after mediation talks between the three families, directed by the court in July last year collapsed in August.   “I am the owner of the plot acquired by my father before he died. We bought the plot and we are in possession of the title deed,” testified Wangari.  She accused the two families of refusing to vacate the plot even after they were given notice by the former Nakuru municipal council.  “Nduta and Wambui were promised to be compensated with another plot at Pangani Estate. However, they refused and the plot is currently occupied by their children,” she testified.  On December 13, 2019, Ohungo set aside his May 22, 2019 judgment, declared it null and void and ordered a retrial.  The case will proceed on March 1.  By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 11 hours ago By James Wanzala | 12 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 13 hours ago