The school's administration says no teacher was involved. [Courtesy]  A Standard Seven pupil at Gremon Education Centre, Mombasa County is nursing serious injuries after he was allegedly beaten up by teachers for eating five instead of one chapati as stipulated in the school rules.  This comes barely a week since Mugoiri Girls High school principal denied suspending more than five students for allegedly getting extra portions.  The mother told the media that her son, who is now receiving treatment at Makadara Hospital, was beaten up on Sunday, January 23, but she was informed of the incident a week later.  “If you look at the back of his body, he looks burnt because there are scars everywhere,’ the teenager’s mother whose name is withheld told Citizen TV. Unestablished reports indicate that the 13-year-old was beaten with a horse pipe before hot water was poured on him then other students landed on him.  Doctors treating the boy at Makadara Hospital say that the boy was brought in with acute kidney injury and wounded genitals.  “He came in with an acute kidney injury which we are working on. His genitals are also injured. We are monitoring his urine output as we administer antibiotics as we manage the infection,” the doctor told journalists.  According to the school head, Nancy Gachewa, the incident involved students as no teacher caned any student.  “No teacher was involved in the incident because it was a students’ affair amongst themselves and since the matter is under investigation, let us not interfere,” Gachewa also told Citizen TV.  Gachewa was arrested and taken to Kazandani police post as police probe the incident.  While reacting to the incident, Coast Region Education Director Adan Hussein said the institution had not met some requirements of the Ministry and shall be closed indefinitely.  “The primary wing is to be closed because it’s not registered, the secondary wing doesn’t meet hygiene standards of the ministry therefore the school shall remain closed until they meet ministry’s requirements,” Hussein said.  By Patrick Beja | 4 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 4 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 10 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 1 day ago