From left, Sotik ODM’s Francis Maritim, ODM leader Raila Odinga, former Head of Civil Service Sally Kosgei, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and Busia Senator Amos Wako when they met with Kipsigis grassroots leaders yesterday to popularise Azimio la Umoja in South Rift. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have planned a joint rally on Sunday to unveil the structure of Azimio la Umoja movement, which has reserved the outfit’s chairperson.  A proposed structure obtained by The Standard shows Uhuru is set to become the chairperson of the coalition party that brings together close to 15 political outfits in a move that will keep him politically active after his presidency. Raila will be the coalition’s presidential candidate.  The handshake partners have picked the historical Kamkunji Grounds as the venue for event that will mark the official launch for the coalition that seeks to push Raila to power in the August 9 polls. The coalition has created four posts of deputy chairperson, who will be picked from the Coast region, Western, North Eastern and either Nairobi or Eastern regions.  A key figure within Uhuru’s team said a technical team had been tasked to achieve regional balance in identifying the top officials.  The coalition has also created the position of secretary that has been earmarked for a politician from Nyanza while the position of organising secretary will be taken up by someone from Rift Valley.    The source cited Uhuru’s decision to prevail upon some of his CSs, who had indicated plans for elective seats, to remain in Cabinet as a confirmation that he would have a say in the next government should Raila succeed him. Agriculture CS Peter Munya had planned to resign and contest the Meru governor seat, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe had been touted to vie for the Nyeri governor, while National Treasury Ukur Yatani was to vie for the Marsabit governor seat.  Yesterday Raila chaired ODM’s Central Management Committee meeting in preparations for the outfit’s National Delegates Convention scheduled for Saturday.  He will today yet again attend the party’s National Executive Council (NEC) meeting in the build-up to the political jamboree to be held at Kasarani Stadium.  ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the party would have its National Governing Council (NGC) on Friday at Bomas of Kenya. “We have NEC on Thursday, NGC on Friday then NDC on Friday. On Sunday we will have a rally at Kamkunji,” said Mr Sifuna.  More than 3,000 ODM delegates will attend the event expected to endorse Raila for president.  In a recent interview, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the Friday’s meeting would be mainly housekeeping before the actual NDC on Saturday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. “There will be the Youth League, Women League and a few housekeeping issues on Friday, then on Saturday we have the actual NDC,” said Tuju.  “We are dealing with about 4,000 delegates but we are also cognizant of the Ministry of Health’s Covid-19 guidelines,” said Tuju.  By Kennedy Gachuhi and Titus Too | 1 hour ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago By Ng'ang'a Mbugua | 3 hours ago By Stephen Nzioka | 9 hours ago