Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru after being bestowed as patron Kiama Kia Ma (Kirinyaga county) by the council top council at Kangaru Salvation Army Grounds, February 12, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  The race for the Kirinyaga governor’s seat gained momentum on Saturday after Senator Charles Kibiru launched his bid for the seat.  “I will vie on Azimio La Umoja ticket and my grassroots campaigns start today. I hope to bring sanity and order in the county,” he said.  The Azimio la Umoja brigade led by Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi and Siaya Senator James Orengo urged Kenyans to vote ‘wisely’ in August polls for better leadership.   “It is you to decide the leaders that you want.’’ Said Muriithi ‘’Vote wisely. Do not let the country go back to the years when Orengo (Siaya Senator James Orengo) fought for multiparty politics.”   He said that Azimio la Umoja’s mandate was to preach peace following President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s handshake which calmed the country after the disputed 2017 presidential polls.  “Do not take a panga or machete to kill your neighbour since they are from a certain tribe. Do not hurt anyone in the name of politics,” the governor added.  He said that the economy is yet to get to where former President Kibaki left it at 6.5 per cent growth adding that the country needs a leader like Raila who has people’s interests at heart.  “Politicians have lost direction. Instead of selling ideas, we have turned to be comedians, shaming each other in public. We should refrain and start giving Kenyans ideas of how we will represent them,” said the Senator.  Orengo recalled his arrest together with former Mwea MP Alfred Nderitu while fighting for the interests of rice farmers in 1998.  He called on Kenyans to emulate the vision of ‘heroes’ who died trying to liberate Kenya from the colonialists by voting for the right leaders.  The leaders endorsed Kibiru and campaigned for him saying he was fit to succeed  Waiguru.  Others keen on unseating Waiguru are Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici, former MP Peter Gitau (Mwea), politician Chomba Gitau, former Kirinyaga governor Joseph Ndathi and Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri.  By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 days ago