Gun-wielding attackers continue to ravage the Kerio Valley, even as the government talks tough.  A primary school teacher is among four people killed in the latest attacks on Sunday.  Two herders Felix Kiplagat and Mark Komen are nursing injuries at the Chesongoch Mission Hospital after the ambush.  Authorities confirmed that the first attack happened in Kipyebo, barely two kilometres from the scene of a school bus shooting, which resulted in the killing of a driver, on Thursday night. In another incident, assailants opened fire on herders near Kabetwa in Marakwet East. According to Deputy County Commissioner Simon Osumba, three people were killed.  Reports indicate that at least 78 people have been shot dead since July last year.  Mr Osumba said one of the victims was a herder from Marakwet, while two others came from the neighbouring Tiaty West in Baringo County.  Locals said the teacher, Reuben Kanda, also a Catholic Church catechist, was heading home after the Sunday mass when he was ambushed a few metres from Kipyebo Primary School where he works as a Board of Management teacher.  “The teacher was a catechist at the Calcuta Kipyebo Catholic Church. He had preached and was leaving when he was shot,” Kiptoo Kitum, a resident, said.  There are at least 12 police stations along the deadly valley, but locals say the officers have been overwhelmed.   "It looks like most police officers do not understand the terrain. We urge the government to deploy specialised forces," said Mr Kitum.   Others want the government to reinstate the National Police Reservists, who were withdrawn in 2018.  Some local leaders blame the Ministry of Interior for failure to act despite promising to launch an operation to weed out the bandits.  Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wisley Rotich asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene, saying the killings may interrupt the national examinations that start next month.  “These attacks are traumatising, especially for learners preparing for the upcoming national exams. The President should take personal responsibility and order the end of these killings because as it is, it is getting out of hand. We are now burying people almost every day,” he said.  srutto@standardmedia.co.ke        By Antony Gitonga | 3 hours ago By Titus Too | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 3 hours ago