President Uhuru Kenyatta arrives at Sagana State Lodge on Wednesday [Courtesy]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has raised questions over the source of the money that his Deputy William Ruto donate so generously.   Although Uhuru did not directly mention Ruto's name, he said it must worry everybody that ‘some people’ dish out huge sums of money in church gatherings and harambees.  Speaking at Sagana State Lodge where he met with the leaders from the Mt Kenya region, Uhuru warned religious leaders against receiving the monies terming them as proceeds of corruption.  "Church leaders should stop lying to Kenyans because they have received stolen money that was meant to construct the Arror and Kimwarer dams," the president said. He added, "Congregants tithe according to what God has blessed them with."  The president also accused Ruto of lying that he had not been informed about the handshake between himself [Uhuru] and ODM leader Raila Odinga.  The Head of State said Ruto was the last person he briefed about the handshake before he made his stand public.  "When Ruto says he was not briefed; he is not being factual because I explained the handshake deal with him. He was the last person I talked to before I went to Harambee House," he added.  Kenyatta reiterated that his reasons for the handshake were so that peace would prevail but not to try and get another term in office.  "God willing, I will finish my term and leave the Country to people who mean well," he said.  On his development record, Kenyatta said he had grown the economy from Sh5trn achieved by the Kibaki administration  Kibaki's to the current Sh13trn as well as the infrastructure.  "Their work is traversing the country atop their vehicles, they do not report to work. All they know to do is abuse people and say Jubilee is dead.  "When Kibaki handed over power to me, he left me with a Sh5 trillion economy and I will leave (Raila) a Sh13 trillion economy,” Uhuru said.  In the same meeting, Uhuru asked the region to fully support Raila Odinga who is contesting on an Azimio la Umoja ticket.  “According to where we have come from, where we are and where we are headed, I want to ask you to hold the hand of the old man (Raila) and support him… the other young man still has time and we can support him in future…,” said Uhuru.  By Martin Kimani | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 6 hours ago