Women leaders led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu (centre) address the media during the Azimio Women Movement launch at Nairobi Serena Hotel, Nairobi on February 10, 2022 [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  A new women’s lobby group has been unveiled to steer Raila Odinga’s presidential campaign.  The  group dubbed Azimio Women’s Movement brings together women leaders, including current governors, former Cabinet Secretaries and MPs.  Among those who attended the launch were Nairobi Governor Anne Kananu, Kitui’s Charity Ngilu, ex-water CS Sicily Kariuki and Youth and Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh.  Also present were Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris and Migori’s Pamella Odhiambo. Speaking yesterday, the women leaders defended Raila against claims that he was a state project. The claims have been levelled against Raila by the Kenya Kwanza team that is led by Deputy President William Ruto.   The women leaders defended Raila, saying he was the people’s project.  “Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta both have a vision for the country. Their visions are what the country needs,” said Passaris.    The movement, whose main agenda is to champion the interests of women while rallying support for the Azimio la Umoja movement, also emphasized the need for women to take up more elective posts.  “As Azimio women we have set targets. We need to produce 20 female governors, 20 female senators, 30 female MPs and for women in each county to be given direct tickets to run as Members of County Assemblies,” they said in a statement.   Dubbed ‘Jeshi la Baba’, the leaders plan to expand the movement’s reach to the regions. “Let’s show Kenya what we are capable of. Let’s take up space and be part of what’s going on,” said Ms Odhiambo.  The leaders expressed great confidence in Raila’s 10-point plan, which they said advocated women’s healthcare, financial stability and leadership.  By Standard Team | 55 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 55 minutes ago By Stevens Muendo | 3 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 9 hours ago