President Uhuru Kenyatta joins Marion Cherotich during the Jubilee campaigns ahead of the 2017 General Election. [Courtesy]  Fancy “Marion” Cherotich, a Kalenjin artiste whose song Kimoche Taa/Jubilee Tosha was a signature tune for the Jubilee Party in Rift Valley in 2017 now has her eyes set on Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations.  Cherotich says she is unfazed as this year’s elections near and musicians compose tunes that they hope will capture the attention of political parties, and at the same time earn themselves a living.  “Joining university after passing KSCE will be the highlight of my life than the day President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, former Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso among other prominent politicians joined for a jig on the stage during the 2017 election campaigns,” she said.  So focused is the 34-year-old KCSE candidate at Rusenya Girls Secondary School in Konoin Constituency, Bomet County, that when The Standard first called her for an interview, she turned down our request, saying she was preparing for continuous assessment tests.   When Cherotich finally agreed to talk to us yesterday, she said passing KCSE was a priority since it was her second attempt to complete high school after initially dropping out in Form One in 2008 over “personal reasons”.    A source, however, claimed that the songstress had dropped out of school after she was misled to get married. “I now want to liberate myself through education after restarting my high school education in 2008. This is 14 years after I should have sat for my KCSE,” she said.  Cherotich, whose education is sponsored by nominated MP Gideon Keter, disclosed that her favourite subjects are History, Business, and Religious Education.   Like fellow candidates, I wake up at 3am for remedial studies. I am ready to do everything to score above university entry grades,” she said.  Cherotich has however written down 15 patriotic songs and 65 secular songs in her lyrics book.  By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Antony Gitonga & Kennedy Gachuhi | 7 hours ago