Police in Kapkangani, Nandi County, have arrested a woman accused of killing her husband following a domestic dispute.  Sharon Kemboi, according to Nandi Central OCPD Doris Chamoss, was arrested following the death of Gideon Kemboi, a deputy headteacher at Siksik Secondary School.  Neighbours said the two engaged in a physical fight before the woman reportedly drew a kitchen knife she had been hiding and stabbed her husband.  Sharon is said to have accused her husband of engaging in extramarital affairs, triggering off the feud. Tecla Jerotich, a neighbour to the couple, said she witnessed the ugly scene as the two fought before the victim was stabbed.  "Sharon confronted her husband upon learning he was having an affair with another woman," said Ms Jerotich.  The couple has two children. They had a colourful wedding in December and lived happily. However, things started going south as claims of infidelity emerged.  Jerotich said they fought all the time before Saturday's tragedy.  "She told me she was going to check on her children whom she had left with their father. Suddenly, I heard screams from the home and when I went to check, I found them fighting," she said.  Jerotich said she managed to separate them momentarily before the fight took a tragic turn.  "I was standing in between them, begging them to stop fighting. Sharon pulled out a knife she had hidden and stabbed Gideon in the chest," the witness claimed.  She added: "Gideon fall down and was bleeding. I raised alarm. Other neighbours rushed to the scene. We took him to Kapkangani health centre where he was pronounced dead on arrival."  Ms Chamoss said the deceased had a deep wound on the left side of his chest.  "We have arrested the suspect who is helping us with investigations. We have also recovered what we believe was used in the incident," the OCPD said adding the suspect has been detained at Kapsabet Central Police Station and may be presented to the court on Monday to face murder charges.  Meanwhile, Gideon's body has been preserved at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital mortuary pending a postmortem.  By Daniel Chege | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 9 hours ago By Obare Osinde | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago