Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. [File, Standard]  Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has declared that he has no interest in any political seat in the upcoming August 9 election.  His sentiments come in the backdrop of unestablished reports that indicated Kibicho was eyeing the Kirinyaga Governor seat.  Addressing the media at Kirinyaga on Saturday, Kibicho clarified his future plans saying he would follow directions from his boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta.  “I'm not going for any elective post. I've said it many times before, the direction I'm following is where President Uhuru Kenyatta is leading us and that is still my position. I will continue to support the president and do the job he gave me," the PS said. He also commended the Jubilee government for various development projects in Kirinyaga County in what he described as ‘the first since independence’.  “We will be with Uhuru to the last minute and follow his direction. He has done so much for Kirinyaga, things we had not done since independence,” the PS went on.  Kibicho also hinted at a possibility of Uhuru endorsing ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid, saying they had only read the Head of State’s body language in his preferred direction.  "We can read the body language and we can tell which way he wants us to go and that is what we will follow, and I will be back here [Kirinyaga] campaigning for that side because we respect the president," he added.  Prior to his sentiments, he was rumoured to be running the Kirinyaga Governor seat, but recently he has been seen silently supporting Wangui Ngirici.  Ngirici is the current woman representative who is vying for the governor seat.  On January 27, the incumbent Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru protested what she termed as a move by the national government to deny her a permit for the Wang’uru stadium where Deputy President William Ruto was expected to hold a rally.  She expressed disappointment at not being able to host Ruto at the stadium which she said had been used to hold meetings since Mashujaa day last year.  “We are very shocked as leaders in Kirinyaga County having been denied a permit to hold a rally for the Deputy President in Wang’uru stadium. PS Kibicho has been using it for public meetings, when we decided to ask it to be used by the DP, they decided to tell us that it was not complete,” she stated.  By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 9 hours ago