Caroline Baini (right) shows Commissioner General of Prisons John Kibaso (centre) and Safal Group CEO Anders Lindgren (left) the newly launched workshop. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  At least 500 female inmates at Lang’ata Women Prison are set to benefit from a Sh12 million training workshop unit.  The two-wing workshop which comprises of baking, clothing and tailoring units is set to support the prison’s newly established entrepreneurship and vocational training programmes to equip inmates with skills they can rely on after serving their terms.  Speaking during the launch of the facility, Commissioner General of Prisons Brigadier (Rtd) John Kibaso said the units will supplement the existing training facilities which are inadequate for the women population in the prison.  “The key objective of the project is to equip Lang’ata Women Prison with skills that will enable them to build their entrepreneurial capacity and chose alternatives to crime for income generation upon completion of their sentence,” said Warioba. The Sh12 million workshop which will mainly offer baking and tailoring courses was jointly funded by Chandaria Foundation, Mabati Rolling Mills Limited (MRM) and Safal Building Systems Limited (SBS).  The prisons boss commended the SafBuild’s Pre-Engineered Steel Buildings (PEB) technology, noting that off-site fabrication and assembling of the facility on-site reduced the construction time by about 560 per cent.  The project was delivered under 10 weeks.  Safal Group Chief Executive Officer Anders Lindgren said the company’s building and construction technology enabled them deliver the project within tight timelines without comprising the quality and value of the facility.  “The need to accelerate the completion of this construction was to cater for the rising training needs in the prison, therefore allowing more women to take up the trainings offered,” said Lindgren.  Among the equipment installed at the facility include sewing machines, baking ovens and cake mixers, storage cabinets, kitchen and water tanks.  “The project will be of help to the women during reintegration into the society, who are equipped with new skillsets to empower them in sustainable opportunities,” said Chandaria Foundation founder, Manu Chandaria.  "It is my hope that these initiatives by the prison will to a great extent help in the prevention of relapse in crime."   By Amos Kareithi | 50 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 3 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 4 hours ago