Miguna Miguna at IEBC mobile station in Toronto, Canada. [Courtesy]  Exiled lawyer Miguna Miguna is among Kenyans living in the diaspora who visited the IEBC mobile voter registration stations in Canada as the second phase of the exercise that targets 4.5 new voters.  Miguna, who also holds a Canadian passport, toured the IEBC mobile station in Toronto, on Friday, to check his voting data.  “Today, I attended at the IEBC Kenya's Mobile Station in Toronto and made sure I am on the Voters' Register,” the controversial lawyer said on his verified Twitter page.  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) confirmed Miguna’s visit in a tweet. “Miguna Miguna was among the many Kenyans living in Canada, who visited Kenya High Commission office and Consulates to register as a voter, change details or transfer their voting station from Kenya to Canada. #ECVR2022 is ongoing in Ottawa, Toronto and Vancouver for 15 days,” IEBC said in a statement.  The IEBC, however, did not state outrightly whether Miguna registered as a new voter or changed his particulars.  Kenyans living in the United Kingdom, United States, South Sudan, Qatar, United Arab Emirates and Germany will vote for the first time on the August 9 General Election.  In 2017, only Kenyans living in Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa participated in electing their president.  According to IEBC, voter enlisting for diaspora citizens will be conducted during official working hours at the Kenyans embassies, high commissions and consulates in respective countries.  The ongoing exercise will run until Monday, in the country, with the diaspora’s exercise expected to conclude on February 15.  In 2018, Miguna was deported to Canada, for the second time, with the government arguing that the outspoken lawyer, is not a Kenyan citizen.  He had previously been dramatically deported in February 2018 with the government arguing that Miguna renounced his Kenyan citizenship when he moved to Canada in 1988.  Miguna later claimed that his passport was confiscated and later perforated.  In November 2019, High Court Judge, Justice Hedwig Ong’udi ordered the Government to allow Miguna to return to Kenya.  Though Justice Ong'udi in his ruling had asked Miguna Miguna to apply for a new passport immediately "he jets into the country", The Standard could not immediately very official government document Miguna was allowed to use in the voters’ registration exercise  By Dominic Omondi | 1 hour ago By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 6 hours ago