UDA National Chairman Johnstone Muthama. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  A section of Amani National Congress (ANC) members have condemned the utterances made by former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama over the pact between the party and United Democratic Alliance (UDA.  Muthama had claimed that no deal had been reached between UDA, Musalia Mudavadi's ANC and Moses Wetangula's Ford Kenya. He said that the parties are still engaging as friends as the negotiations between them continue.  Muthama's statement has, however, caused jitters within the Kenya Kwanza alliance.   Addressing the media in Kitale, Saboti Ward MCA aspirant Luke Naibei said Muthama's remarks threaten the newly-found working relationship between Deputy President William Ruto, Mudavadi and Wetangula.  "Muthama is a very senior official in our party (UDA), we didn't expect him to make such remarks. Such pedestrian utterances are likely to break our pact with the other Western region leaders," Naibei said.  Naibei called on DP Ruto to visit Western Kenya very soon so as to give his supporters the direction to take.  "We would like to ask the Deputy President to give us direction. We are ready and comfortable with whatever direction he will give us, whether zoning or joint nominations," Naibei reiterated.  He added that Azimio la Umoja Movement leaders can capitalize on Muthama's remarks to weaken their alliance and reduce the chances of Ruto winning the Presidential elections on August 9.  On her part, an official of the ANC women league, Immaculate Shamala, called for sobriety in the negotiation between the three leaders.  "We would not like to see a repeat of what happened in 2017 when we were in NASA. We don't want to see sibling rivalry and big brother syndrome. All the parties must be treated as equal partners," Shamala said.  Shamala insisted that there should be clear communication from the alliance officials so that supporters are not confused.  "Receiving mixed signals from the alliance is not good at all. We, therefore, demand that going forward, the alliance comes up with one communication command centre" she added.  By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 9 hours ago