L-R: Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, ODM leader Raila Odinga and ODM Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna when MCA's from Kakamega County were received at Chungwa House. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Aspirants eyeing elective positions through Azimio la Umoja coalition will have to agree on a single candidate for each elective seat.  In Western, the aspirants have up to Monday next week to reach a consensus on who will fly the coalition’s flag.  This applies to all positions, from the MCA seat, Woman representative, MP, senator and governor.  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said a special committee will be constituted to oversee the consensus process. Mr Oparanya, who is also the ODM deputy party leader, said aspirants from  Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia, Bungoma and Kakamega will meet in Kakamega next week to deliberate the matter to forestall a fallout.  ODM leader Raila Odinga had earlier indicated that Azimio would adopt consensus in nominating candidates.  Speaking during Azimio la Umoja Western Chapter consultative meeting at Kakamega Golf hotel on Monday, Oparanya they were wary of competitive nominations because the process could trigger defection of losers to rival parties.    He exuded confidence that consensus would ensure Azimio la Umoja bags many seats across the country.  “It would be a different scenario if coalition partners decide to compete against each other.”  Some aspirants eyeing the governor seat have indicated that they will agree on a single candidate. They include Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima, Ketraco Chief Executive Fernandes Barasa and Shinyalu MP Kizito Mugalia.  “We want to confirm to the public that we met and have agreed that we shall not go for a bruising nomination contest,” said Kizito.  Mr Barasa said they do not wish to scuttle Raila’s prospects of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta.  “We are focused on ensuring ODM produces the next governor of Kakamega and keeping Raila votes intact,” said the Ketraco boss.  Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong told a meeting that he was open to dialogue with Teso South MP Geoffrey Omuse over who should vie on ODM ticket in Teso South.  By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 6 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 9 hours ago