Ministry Of Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development CS Betty Maina [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Industrialization and Trade CS Betty Maina has taken over operations at the Ministry charged with overseeing the country’s relations with the region in acting capacity.  This is after former East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed resigned on February 8, to vie for the Mandera gubernatorial seat.  Maina's additional responsibilities were confirmed through a tweet posted on the Ministry of Industrialization page on Monday.  "Cabinet Secretary for Industrialization and Trade Betty Maina this morning took over additional responsibilities as the acting CS for East African Community," reads the tweet. Betty has more than 27 years’ experience in organizational leadership and development.  She prides in the ability to prepare and implement strategic business plans and mobilize resources for implementation.  Prior to serving as the Industrialization CS, Betty was Principal Secretary in several ministries including Environment and Forestry, State Department for industrialization, and State Department of East African Affairs.  On his part, Mohammed was one of the four Cabinet Secretaries who have served President Uhuru Kenyatta's cabinet since he took office in 2013.  Others are; Fred Matiang'i (Interior), Raychelle Omamo (Foreign Affairs), James Macharia (Health), and Amina Mohamed (Sports).  On February 8, 2022, Mohammed expressed gratitude to the president and resigned saying he now wished to focus on campaigns for the top political seat in Mandera county.  "As we approach the General Election in August 2022, I have considered options on the future roles I can play in the development of our country and reached the decision to run for the position of Governor, Mandera County," he said.  Some of the trade agreements Mohammed spearheaded while serving at EA&RD ministry include the European Partnership Agreement (EPA) and the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).  By Caroline Chebet | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago