Former Raila Odinga’s Chief of Staff Caroli Omondi speaking at Nyatambe Village in Suba South Constituency during the burial of his mother Rose Achola.[James Omoro, Standard]  Former Raila Odinga’s Chief of Staff Caroli Omondi has differed with ODM National Chairman John Mbadi over the push to have him back in ODM.  Mbadi who spoke at Nyatambe Village in Suba South Constituency during the burial of Omondi’s mother Rose Achola, told Omondi to return to ODM and contest Suba parliamentary seat on the party ticket.  “I want Caroli to return to ODM and contest this parliamentary seat on the orange party ticket. I know his strength,” Mbadi said.  The Suba South MP argued that Omondi stood higher chances of winning the seat if he contested on ODM ticket. He cited a stiff political competition between Omondi and him during ODM nominations ahead of 2017 General election.  “I don’ want to go into detail of who defeated the other in the last ODM nomination but both of us know what happened. But do you think the party could deny its chairman a nomination ticket?” Mbadi asked.  However, Omondi differed with Mbadi saying he feared contesting the seat on ODM ticket.  Omondi argued that ODM had short-changed him twice by denying him a nomination certificate in his aspiration for Suba parliamentary seat.   “I am one of the founder members of ODM and I understand the party better than Mbadi who is the chairman. It is a fact that ODM has short-changed me twice,” Caroli said.  He announced that he is going to contest Suba South parliamentary seat but on a ticket of another political party under Azimio la Umoja Coalition.  “My party is Raila Odinga. I am going to contest this seat on a ticket of a political party that supports Raila’s presidency through the Azimio La Umoja and Suba South residents should be ready to welcome the coalition here,” Omondi said.  Omondi was reacting after residents demanded his position on the race.  Apart from Omondi, the Chief of Protocol in Homa Bay County Government John Apollo is also eyeing the seat.  Apollo said he is going to promote infrastructural development in the area if elected.  “I am going to pick from where Mbadi left so that we can have good roads and other amenities our constituency,” Apollo said.  He also promised to promote education through allocation of bursaries.  The race for Suba South parliamentary seat has no incumbency since Mbadi is contesting Homa Bay gubernatorial seat.  By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 3 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 days ago