Deputy President William Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza Principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula addressed Ibacho residents in Kisii County yesterday. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has said Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga will be a puppet president if elected claiming he will be controlled by some selfish individuals aiming at safeguarding their interests.  Ruto continued with his attacks on Raila in the Gusii region yesterday where he told the residents not to trust any other aspirant other than him. The DP claimed some powerful individuals in government were busy planning how to take over power using Raila and rule from the background.  “While we are busy planning how the lowest Kenyan will be uplifted, some other operatives are busy in hotels planning how to install a puppet president who they will control as they want so that their selfish interests continue being served. We are not fools to accept such schemes,” Ruto said.  He insisted that Kenya Kwanza Alliance was destined to take power in August and that the formation was sending panic among its rivals. He maintained that the Jubilee government agenda was hijacked by the ‘Handshake’ and the Building Bridges Initiative which he said had cost Kenyans billions of shillings that could have been spent in uplifting lives of poor Kenyans.  “We started well as a government in 2013 but some people came in 2017 to serve their selfish interests. We now have a country that is full of debts,” Ruto said.  Ruto said his dalliance with Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-K’s Moses Wetangula signaled great things to come with many more leaders set to join them.    Speaking during his tour of North Mugirango, West Mugirango and Kitutu Masaba constituencies in Nyamira County accompanied by Mudavadi and Wetangula, Ruto who has been Uhuru’s deputy for two terms said that Kenyans were yearning for change in August polls.  Ruto said 102,000 people have been connected to the national power grid compared to 12,000 people in 2013 and 300 kilometres of roads tarmacked in Nyamira in the last eight years.  He said unfulfilled Big Four Agenda will be accomplished when he wins the presidency.  ‘’The biggest priority in the country right now is the creation of job opportunities for four million youths when Kenya Kwanza Alliance takes over government in August,’’ said Ruto.  The DP criticised Raila for prioritising constitutional changes instead of economic empowerment of the poor and jobless Kenyans.  He said that Sh100 billion will be set aside for agro-processing, manufacturing, enterprise development, and job creation for youths when he becomes president.  The UDA leader said that it was imperative for the government to support small enterprises to lift Kenyans from poverty and that Sh50 billion will be set aside for this initiative annually when he gets to power.  He said his administration will ensure every Kenyan is enrolled in National Hospital Insurance Fund for quality and accessible medical care. Mudavadi said he should not be dragged into President Uhuru and Ruto’s differences and that he will not allow anyone to choose friends for him.  “President Uhuru Kenyatta is the patron of Azimio la Umoja and has decided to choose ODM leader Raila Odinga as his successor and he is going to choose a running mate for Raila thereby micromanaging the government by remote control,’’ said Mudavadi.  The ANC leader called on Kenyans not to be hoodwinked by appointments of Cabinet Secretaries and other senior civil servants to fill vacancies left by those who resigned to contest for various seats.  “Kenyans have been burdened. They are tired of being told stories. Change is coming,” he said.  Wetangula said Kenya Kwanza is destined to form the next government and asked President Kenyatta to follow the example of retired President Mwai Kibaki who left Kenyans to decide on their leaders in 2013.  He said the Kenya Kwanza government will give equal opportunities to all Kenyans to prosper and asked citizens to support Ruto for the top seat.  Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezikiel Machogu who was ushered to UDA at Ibacho grounds said he was ready for the Kisii governor’s race.  “I am ready for the battle. I have resolved to join the Deputy President and other like-minded leaders to push the country’s agenda,” he said.  North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko, West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi, Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrach Mose, South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga accompanied Ruto during the tour.  By Erastus Mulwa | 45 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 55 minutes ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 9 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 9 hours ago