Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Exodus of state and public officers eyeing elective seats is expected today, as they vacate office and hand over.  Hundreds of civil servants in national and county governments planning to contest in the August 9 elections must resign by tomorrow. The law provides that they resign at least six months before the date of a General Election.  Government directed public servants eyeing elective posts to leave office and hand over by 5pm today.   Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua has ordered the civil servants to hand over their offices and public assets and prepare comprehensive hand-over notes for smooth transition.  The migration from public service was kicked off by among others George Natembeya, who resigned as Rift Valley Regional Commissioner to contest for Trans Nzoia governor.  On Friday, Chief Administrative Secretary Wavinya Ndeti called it quits at the Transport ministry to vie for Machakos governor seat. She had served for more than two years as CAS for Transport.  In a Press briefing at her office yesterday, as she handed over to Transport CS James Macharia, Ms Ndeti said it was a great honour to serve in the Cabinet, but time had come to serve her people in Machakos. “I am coming home to fill in the leadership void. I am ready and available to walk with you on the journey of socioeconomic transformation,” she said.    State House Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita and Machakos County Assembly Speaker Florence Mwangangi have also declared interest in the Machakos seat.  “I will be vying for governorship of Machakos County... I will work until February 9, at 5pm, as is the norm. I will go and see the Head of Public Service and hand over,” said Mr Waita.  Waita said he would also make a farewell call to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ask for his blessings and support, besides thanking him for the privilege to serve Kenyans.  Others who have resigned include Tourism CAS Joseph Boinnet. The former Inspector General of Police will vie for Elgeyo Marakwet governor seat.  Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee chairperson Alfred Khang’ati has also resigned to vie for Kanduyi MP seat.  Senior Director in charge of Delivery at Presidential Delivery Unit Patrick Ngatia, who is eyeing Nyeri Town MP seat currently held by Ngunjiri Wambugu, is campaigning.  “I have already quit and now in the second phase, that of seeking the mandate of the people in Nyeri Town constituency,” said Mr Ngatia.    Mr Kinyua’s circular dated January 28 was sent to the Attorney-General, Cabinet secretaries, CASs, chairpersons of Constitutional Commissions, PSs, chief executive officers of constitutional commissions, and chief executive officers of state corporations and agencies.  The letter was also copied to Council of Governors chairperson Martin Wambora, Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi and Clerk of the Senate Jeremiah Nyegenye.  By Stephanie Wangari | 32 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago By Joackim Bwana | 4 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 4 hours ago