Russia stages war games before attacking Ukraine. [Courtesy]  Ukrainian Ambassador to Kenya Andrii Pravednyk says that Kyiv will respond to Russia’s invasion with all its strength and might even as Ukraine calls for more sanctions on Moscow.  The Russian forces on Thursday launched massive air and ground assault firing missiles into Ukrainian territory.  This came even as Vladimir Putin’s regime continues to send more troops to the border with Ukraine in what he termed as a special military operation in the east.  Pravednyk, while reacting to the attack, from Nairobi called for the international community to rally behind Ukraine by imposing more “devastating sanctions" on Russia.  “The Armed Forces of the Russian Federation launched an intensive shelling of our units. They delivered missiles and bomb strikes,” said Pravednyk adding that Russian forces fired artillery on the areas along the state border and administrative area which is temporarily occupied by Crimea.  Ukraine says it will activate its right to self-defence, in line with international law, to protect its citizens.  “The combat spirit of the Ukrainian military is high. Our defenders (forces) are ready to give a decisive response to the aggressor state, and will protect the Ukrainian soil with all their strength,’ noted the envoy while reading a statement by the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry.  Ukraine further called for friendly nations to strengthen Kyiv by providing military support.  “Not only the lives and security of Ukraine citizens, but also entire Europe; and the future of the world order, depend on our joint response.”  “Only united and decisive action can stop Vladimir Putin's aggression against Ukraine. Our partners should immediately enact a package of new sanctions, starting now!”  The early morning attack on Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Luhansk regions left eight people dead and nine others seriously wounded, according to media reports.  According to the latest data, 40 soldiers and 10 civilians have been killed in the Russian attack so far.   Kyiv has termed the attack as “forceful occupation” on its territory and an act of war.  “This is an act of war.”  U.S. President Joe Biden while promising tough sanctions in response, termed the move by Moscow as "an unprovoked and unjustified attack.”  By Allan Mungai | 4 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 5 hours ago By Titus Too | 8 hours ago By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 8 hours ago