KEMSA acting CEO John Kabuchi flags off medical supplies at their warehouse in Embakasi on February 22, 2022.[Denish Ochieng, Standard]  Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa) has flagged off trucks loaded with medical supplies in line with the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) programme.    Acting CEO John Kabuchi, said the medical supplies are headed to several health facilities in over 37 counties.  Among the counties expected to receive the consignments are Turkana, Nakuru, Kwale, Kisii, West Pokot and Marsabit.  “The trucks are loaded with assorted medical supplies to various counties as part of ongoing efforts to ensure the scale-up of the Universal Health Coverage programme,” said Kabuchi. He was speaking at the national supply centre in Embakasi, Nairobi.    Universal Health Coverage is one of the government’s Big Four Agenda, which aims to ensure equal access to quality and affordable medical coverage by 2022.  Among the supplies dispatched, are Antiretroviral therapy drugs (ARVs) and a consignment of SPF+50 sunscreen creams and lotions for persons with albinism.  This is a huge relief following the countrywide shortage of the drugs last year caused by a clearance dispute between the government and the USAid agency.  Further, the authority’s regional distribution centre in Kisumu has dispatched supplies to 10 counties in the lake basin region.  The medical supplies authority has gradually developed last-mile delivery services for national medical supplies through a network of warehouses across the country.   “Currently, Kemsa serves over 11,500 health facilities from the Embakasi National Supply Chain Centre. This centre is complemented by a devolved network of 11 warehouses - four in Nairobi and the others in Eldoret, Kakamega, Kisumu, Meru, Mombasa, Nakuru and Nyeri."  Last year, KEMSA won the Global Award in Health Supply Chain Innovation Award for developing an elaborate electronic proof of delivery solution.      By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago By Martin Kimani | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago