ODM leader with delegates at the Kasarani Indoor Arena. [Samson Wire, Standard]  The Kasarani Indoor arena played host to presidential candidate and ODM party leader Raila Odinga as he attended the party’s National Delegates Convention (NDC).  Raila made his way to an arena crackling with cheers from a jubilant crowd. Different leaders took to the centre stage to show off their dancing skills as the sound of the “Lelo” remix which features Raila rent the air.  The delegates unanimously approved the party to officially join Azimio la Umoja coalition party.   Catherine Mumma, the chairperson of the party’s elections board, led the delegates in acclamation voting of Raila Odinga as the presidential candidate.  “He is the only candidate that we have to present to the NDC as the party’s presidential candidate for the 2022 general elections,” she proclaimed.  Raila was proposed by his deputies Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and seconded by Governor Ali Hassan Joho. The two had submitted their papers for consideration but withdrew in support of Raila.  The party also resolved to hold grassroots and national elections in 2023, after it postponed them citing the Covid-19 pandemic interruption.  The matter was proposed by Narok County Senator Ledama Ole Kina and seconded by Pamela Odhiambo, the Migori County Women Representative. The delegates in attendance overwhelmingly backed the motion  When he stood to make his speech Raila Odinga started by honouring departed ODM veterans such as William Ole Ntimama. He declared a new dawn for the party after he was chosen as the presidential candidate.  “Thank you very much for choosing me as your presidential candidate,” he said.  He said that he will fly the party’s flag high without fear comparing himself to marathoner Eliud Kipchoge.  After the speech, Odinga left for KICC where he was received by President Uhuru Kenyatta for the Jubilee Party’s NDC.  By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By Dennis Tarus | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 3 hours ago