It was a show of might between Deputy President William Ruto's Kenya Kwanza Alliance and a section of Azimio la Umoja leaders in Coast who held parallel rallies in Mombasa yesterday.  Ruto, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya's Moses Wetangula held a rally at the historical Tononoka Grounds to sell their agenda on health, education and job creation.  The DP reiterated that he will pump Sh100 billion into job creation and Sh50 billion for small scale traders. Ruto also said Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya will become one of Kenya Kwanza principals.   Ruto said the March 9, 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga was the cause of most problems bedeviling the country.  "The handshake led to the collapse of Jubilee, the big four agenda and opposition in the country. Since the handshake, we have not had peace in the country.  "People who were given jobs on merit have been dismissed without reason. Those who think they have powers to plan for Kenyans will be in for a rude shock in August," he said.  Mudavadi said they joined Ruto because their agenda was the same of reviving the economy and create opportunities for thousands of jobless youth in the country.  The DP and Kenya Kwanza team's two-day tour took them to Kwale, Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Mombasa counties.  Meanwhile, in the Azimio la Umoja rally at Mvita Grounds, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, Jomvu's Badi Twalib and Likoni's Mishi Mboka termed Ruto's forays in Coast as insignificant.  "Let the visitors sample the various attractions sites. We are not bothered with their many trips because we know Mombasa is an ODM zone," said Nassir in reference to Ruto's tour.  The Mvita MP said over 160 aspirants for various elective seats attended the rally to show support for ODM Party Leader Raila Odinga.  He said Coast has for the last 15 years supported Raila because voters believe in his agenda and that the 1.8 odd million voters will not abandon him when he is about to ascend to power.  ''The economic model fronted by Raila is achievable. He has made it clear that he shall seal all the loopholes of corruption," said Nassir.  Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said they had settled on Abdulswamad to succeed Governor Hassan Joho in August, saying: "We hope that once Raila wins the presidency, he shall appoint Joho to one of his key ministries."   By Benard Sanga | 4 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 1 day ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 2 days ago