Former President Daniel Arap Moi [File]  At the time of succeeding Kenyatta, the country had only one public university - University of Nairobi.  By the end of 1981, his administration had established Moi University in Eldoret. By 1985, Kenya had four public universities with the inclusion of Kenyatta University in Nairobi and Egerton University in Nakuru.  When he retired, the country had six public universities, with the establishment of Maseno University and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology.  Moi, a politician who cherished peace and hard work, won praise for his role in environmental conservation. He championed re-afforestation, soil conservation and anti-poaching campaigns. Moi also supported programmes that fostered environmental consciousness among Kenyan farmers.   “President Moi settled for Green as his Presidential Standard, a singular act that inspired his conquest in conservation. His environmental credentials are second to none,” Uhuru said upon Moi’s death.  During his tenure, the second president ruled with the philosophy of peace, love and unity which saw him unite different communities that previously saw each other as rivals.  Moi was a unifying figure across Africa as he helped broker peace deals in clash-torn countries, bringing together warring leaders.  His acts of peace saw other leaders elect him as the chairman for the Organisation of Africa Unity (OAU) for two terms in 1981 and 1983. OAU would later become the African Union (AU).  After his retirement, Moi moved to his Kabarak home where he lived a community that has held him in high esteem. Residents of Mang’u area near his home enjoyed his company as neighbours. Many say Moi’s generosity not only ensured they got free health services but also made their lives better.  Dr Langat Kipkorir told The Standard that Moi donated land to the community where they constructed a dispensary in 1984.  Langat and his wife, Selina, recalled how Moi helped fund their wedding in 1998 by paying for the groom’s suit, her bridal gown, the food and reception.  “He decided to sponsor a mass wedding at the African Inland Church (AIC) in Kabarak. My husband and I were very lucky to be part of the wedding,” said Selina.  Daniel Kibet, a butcher, said Moi provided the community with food during harvest time.  “When I worked on Moi’s farm with more than 300 others, he had one instruction that workers should not harvest all the maize and wheat but should leave some for the people,” said Kibet.  By Kennedy Gachuhi and Daniel Chege | 1 hour ago By Gardy Chacha | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago