ODM leader Raila Odinga campaigning in Kinango, Kwale County. February 21, 2022. [Emmanuel Wanson, Standard]  ODM party leader Raila Odinga has pledged to lower the cost of electricity if elected president in the August election.  Raila blamed rising cost of living on high electricity cost and pledged to address the matter in a short time to create a favourable business environment.  The ODM leader, while addressing Lunga Lunga residents in Kwale County, outlined projects he would prioritise in the region if he ascends to power.   He noted that Kwale had untapped wealth, which, if exploited, could lift locals out of poverty.  The ODM leader addressed four rallies in Kwale and pledged to have Shimoni transformed. “I will ensure Shimoni is developed as a major fishing port in East Africa by putting up cold storage house where fishermen will be storing the catch from the Ocean before export.”  He promised that his government would build big fish factories and introduce modern fishing vessels at Shimoni port for locals to tap the blue economy. “We have potential wealth in the Indian Ocean and that is why I will ensure Shimoni port is developed to international standards so that the locals can utilise it to create wealth and jobs,” he said.  The ODM leader, accompanied by Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and local aspirants for various seats, denied claims that he was President Uhuru Kenyatta’s project and promised to bring change immediately he takes over.  Raila promised to revolutionise the economy by adding value to development projects, and warned Kwale residents against electing leaders who give false promises.  Raila urged Kenyans to judge him after 100 days in office if elected president. “I am people’s project. Baba cannot be somebody’s project. I want you to start counting after August 9 so that you judge me after 100 days,” he said.  “Addressing water and land problems will be among my first priorities because they have haunted the area’s communities for years,” he added.  Raila criticised ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi as misleading Kenyans on economic problems facing the country.  He claimed Kenya’s problems started when Mudavadi was the Finance minister and asked him to desist from blaming anybody about the high cost of living.  He denied claims that public debt had ballooned after the handshake with  President Kenyatta. “Mudavadi should not comment about the economy of this country,” he said. [Willis Oketch]  because he knows where the problem started,” he said.   By Ndungu Gachane | 3 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane and Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By George Njunge | 3 hours ago