Pemwai Girl's High School girls celebrate KCSE results in 2016. [Vincent Mabatuk, Standard]  Pemwai Secondary School in Baringo Central has been closed indefinitely after students rioted to protest against the death of their colleague.  The Form Two student, identified as Faith Chelimo Karoney, died at the school on Sunday morning before the institution was closed on Wednesday.  On Monday morning, the protesting students marched to Kabarnet town to protest against death of their colleague, who hails from Mosoriot town.  Ms Karoney is said to have been ailing for two weeks before her death. The students accused the school’s management of failing to take their colleague to the hospital even after they were informed that she was unwell.  Following the incident, Form Three students reportedly refused to sit their exams saying they were not at peace and were not prepared emotionally to take the tests.  Karoney is said to have been nose bleeding and complained of a severe headache. She is also said to have also been vomiting blood and when her case was reported to the school’s management, all the school nurse gave her were painkillers.  Armed security officers were deployed at the school to contain the rioting students before the decision to close down the institution was reached.  The girls accused the school’s administration of laxity in attending to the ailing student. On Wednesday morning, the management closed the school and ordered students to go home.  “We were forced out of school under strict instructions to clear within two hours. Form Three students were the first to be sent away, then Form Four students followed by Form Ones. Form Two students were left behind as they prepared to attend the burial which is set for Saturday,” said a student who did not wish to be named.  A Form Four student said the school should have allowed them to remain so they can continue preparing for the KCSE exams which start in a week.  Our efforts to get a comment from the principal Lornah Tuitoek were fruitless as she declined to pick our calls.   By Steve Mkawale | 9 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 19 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 19 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 20 hours ago