Interior CS Fred Matiangi created the sub-counties, Chiakariga and Muthambi, in Tharaka and Maara constituencies. [George Kaimenyi, Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has announced the creation of two additional sub-counties in Tharaka Nithi.  Chiakariga and Muthambi sub-counties were created in Tharaka and Maara constituencies where the CS made the announcement.  Dr Matiang'i who was accompanied by Governor Muthomi Njuki, Tharaka Nithi County Commissioner Beverly Opwora, and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya also appointed Kyalo Ngovi as the deputy county commissioner.  Also present were Deputy Governor Francis Kagwima, Senator Kithure Kindiki, Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki, his Tharaka counterpart Gitonga Murugar and Chuka University Vice-Chancellor Erastus Njoka. The CS said the creation of the new sub-counties was in line with efforts to bring government services closer to the people.  At the same time, the CS assured residents the national government would ensure all projects it started in the region are completed.  CS Fred Matiang'i appointed Kyalo Ngovi as the Deputy County Commissioner. [George Kaimenyi, Standard]  Matiang'i called on local leaders not to incite residents against the government.  "Your leaders have registered their concern over stalled projects in this region and the president has responded by giving his commitment to complete them," said Matiang'i.  The CS who also released SH5 million to help improve infrastructure at Tunyai Mixed Secondary School added: "We have now entered the season of politics and all the government wants is to see our people united. That is why we are calling on political leaders not to divide the people."   Munya said the government is already in the process of reviving all stalled projects in the region.  "I am also calling on all leaders to respect the president (Uhuru Kenyatta) who has overseen several major projects in this area, including the Mati road which links Tharaka Nithi to Meru and Embu counties," said Munya.  He said some of those castigating the national government have nothing to show for the time they have been in office.  "We must remain united and aim to be in the next government. If we do that, dams such as Kithino and Grand Falls will be possible," said Munya.  Prof Njoka creation of the new sub-counties will enhance government services to residents.  By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Kelvin Karani | 12 hours ago By Stevens Muendo | 12 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 13 hours ago