Deputy President William Ruto's United Democratic Alliance has slashed the nomination fee for female aspirants as well as people living with disabilities.  In the party’s nomination fees schedule released yesterday, anyone seeking a Presidential nomination ticket will have to part with Sh1 million for men and Sh500,000 for women and youth and zero charges for people with disabilities (PWD’s)  UDA has called on its party members to submit their applications for the various elective seats on or before February 28, 2022.  UDA’s National Election Board (NEB) chairman Anthony Mwaura, further explained male aspirants seeking to be nominated for the governor position will be charged a Sh500,000 fee, Sh250,000 for women and zero charges for PWDs.  To be nominated for the senator position, men will be charged Sh250,000 while women and youth will part with Sh125,000. For the women representative seat nomination, aspirants will be charged Sh250,000 while the youth will be required to fork out Sh125,000.  The hotly contested Member of Parliament seat nominations will see aspirants charged Sh250,000 for men and Sh125,000 for women and youth.  Candidates seeking to participate in the nomination process for the Member of County Assembly positions will be charged Sh50,000 and Sh25,000 for the women and youth. PWDs will be exempted from all charges within the nomination process.  Members are urged to apply for nomination via the party’s website.  According to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) political parties have until May 26, 2022, to have conducted their nominations and submitted a list of names to the electoral agency.  At the same time, the registrar of political parties has officially approved and reserved Kenya Kwanza as the coalition name for the tripartite union between UDA, Ford Kenya and ANC parties, The Standard has established.  Registrar of political parties Anne Nderitu approved the name for use following a request by Mr Geoffrey Kanoti who is the Amani National Congress (ANC) director of political affairs and head of protocol at the Musalia Mudavadi presidential campaign.   “Your application has been considered as required by law and the name Kenya Kwanza Alliance (KKA) has been approved as a name of a coalition,” stated Nderitu.  “An application for reservation of coalition name shall be for a period of not more than one hundred and eighty days,” she added.  Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA), Mudavadi’s ANC and Moses Wetangula’s Ford Kenya announced their decision to work together during ANC’s National Delegates conference last month.     By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 9 hours ago By Allan Mungai and Biketi Kikechi | 11 hours ago