Lilian Namunyak Lenina is a twenty-eight-year-old grandmother of twins at her village in Inkinye, Kajiado County. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  In a dry and dusty village in Kajiado County lives a 28-year-old woman who has made peace with her fate in life.  At her age, some of her peers could either be in business or trying to further their education while thinking about settling down.  But Lilian Namunyak has the tough responsibility of taking care of her four children and two grandchildren delivered just four months ago.   At only 28, she is now a grandmother and a widow. Namunyak lost her husband Leonard Lenina in a road accident last year, leaving her with four children.  At the time of her husband’s death, Namunyak’s firstborn aged 14 years was pregnant. She delivered her twins four months ago.  “I have accepted that despite my young age, I have to fend for my other children, feed and educate them. I did not get much chance to pursue my education.”  When Sunday Standard visited Namunyak at her home in Inkinye village, she told of the heavy burden that is her life. As you walk into the compound, you will spot the two toddlers playing around the fireplace, painting the picture of a happy family.  To visitors, the two happy toddlers may easily pass as Namunyak’s children. It is only after a deep conversation that she opens up about the real story. “These are my firstborn daughter’s children. I am now a grandmother,” says Namunyak as she prepares the evening meal of cabbage, potatoes, and Ugali. She said the family of the man who impregnated her daughter shares in their upkeep.  Namunyak said her daughter will sit this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam next month.   “She has gone back to school because I don’t want her to find herself in my situation”. Namunyak said she first got pregnant while in primary school. “I was in Standard Six at the age of 14. Pregnancy forced me to drop out of school.  “I stayed out until my firstborn was old enough to stay with my mother so that I could continue with my education.” She later dropped out of school in Form One due to medical challenges and got married the following year.  “I have joined a young mothers’ group where we encourage each other about life and share skills,” she added. The young mothers learn how to make beads as well as tailoring.  Agnes Leina, the founder of Illaramatak Community Concerns, brings together a group of young mothers. “Our aim is to break the cycle of early marriage and Female Genital Mutilation,” she said.  Leina says the group aims to change the notion that girls who undergo the cut are ready for marriage. “We want to break the cycle.”  By Denish Ochieng and Pkemoi Ngénoh | 12 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 14 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 18 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 1 day ago