Wilfred Machage’s body arrives at the JKIA on February 25, 2022. [Courtesy]  The body of the late Kenya High Commissioner to Nigeria Wilfred Machage has arrived in the country from Abuja ahead of his burial at Kehancha in Migori County.  According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the KQ plane ferrying the body landed at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) at around 10:40am where it was received by family members, friends, CS Raychelle Omamo and other ministry officials.  Machage, according to his family, collapsed on Saturday, February 19, 2022 at his home in Abuja, and died when he was being rushed to hospital. He was 65.  Wilfred Machage's body was received by CS Raychelle Omamo, family members and friends. [Courtesy] Leading the nation in mourning the two-time Kuria East MP and former Migori Senator, President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised Machage as a committed and selfless public servant who relentlessly advocated for the interests of wananchi.  "Dr Machage will be remembered for his many years of public service over the years as a medical doctor, politician, cabinet minister and diplomat who worked tirelessly for the wellbeing of Kenyans," stated President Uhuru in his eulogy.  Speaking to The Standard on February 23, 2022 about burial preparations, Machage’s son, Stephen, said the former High Commissioner will be buried alongside his late mother in Kehancha according to his last wishes.  “He was clear on where he wants to be buried. We are going to execute his wishes. He didn’t have any controversies,” said Stephen, who went on to reveal that the body will lie at the Lee Funeral Home ahead of Monday’s funeral service.  CS Raychelle Omamo comforting Wilfred Machage's kin. [Courtesy]  He added that the body will then be transported to Kehancha, either on that day or on Tuesday, for burial on Wednesday or on any other day within the week.  Wilfred Machage was appointed to head Kenya’s Mission in Abuja in 2018.   By Nancy Nzau | 4 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 9 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 11 hours ago By Rose Kwamboka | 12 hours ago