ODM leader Raila Odinga addressing Bamba and Ganze residents during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday took his Azimio La Umoja campaigns to Kilifi County as he seeks to woo the coastal residents ahead of the August 9 polls.  ODM leader Raila Odinga and other leaders dance during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Raila who jetted into the country from Dubai yesterday will start his tour of the Coast today in what is seen as an effort to consolidate his support base in the region with approximately 1.8 million votes.  ODM leader Raila Odinga and other leaders during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard] He arrived amid heightened political activities at the Coast where aspirants trouping to ODM have ignited fierce battles over the party’s nomination.  ODM leader Raila Odinga consults Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Among the areas the former Prime Minister is expected to attend include Ganze, Bemba, Kaloleni, Mariakani, and Rabai.  ODM leader Raila Odinga and other leaders arrive for the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on Saturday February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  The ODM leader is accompanied at Bamba Sokoni Grounds by a host of governors, senators and MPs who include Hassan Joho, Ledama Ole Kina, Kanini Kega, Abdulswamad Nassir, Getrude Mbeyu, Junet Mohammed, Stanley Muthama, Stewart Madzayo, Teddy Mwambire among others.  ODM leader Raila Odinga with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Suna East MP JUnet Mohammed during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Raila is expected to continue with his coastal tour on Sunday as he visits Mombasa county.  ODM leader Raila Odinga consults Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire during the Azimio la Umoja rally at Bamba Sokoni Grounds in Kilifi County on February 19, 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Additional reporting by Bernard Sanga and Willis Oketch.  By Ndungu Gachane | 4 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago