A party associated with Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa is reducing the influence of Amani National Congress (ANC) and Ford-Kenya which were the major parties in western Kenya after the 2017 General Election.  The party, DAP-K, has been making inroads in western Kenya, netting a number of defectors from the two parties, six months after it was formed.  The party’s growing influence has made ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula uneasy.  Speaking during a consultative meeting at Mululu in Vihiga on Friday, Mudavadi wondered whether it was a State sponsored outfit as Wetang’ula questioned its legality.  The ANC leader said the party could be receiving funds from the State in a bid to divide Luhyas. “We are competing against parties which have not been registered but only receive money for rallies to show that Azimio la Umoja is strong,” said Mudavadi. “DAP-K party has no influence in western.”  Mudavadi, a principal in Kenya Kwanza Alliance which is affiliated to DP William Ruto, equally attacked Cyrus Jirongo’s United Democratic Party (UDP) saying it was in the same family with DAP-K.    “All those party have no MPs and let no one be cheated that since they are backing Azimio la Umoja, the alliance is strong,” said Mudavadi.  For the last month, DAP-K has received defectors from Ford Kenya and ANC.  ANC MPs led by Ayub Savula (Lugari), Peter Nabulindo (Matungu), Oku Kaunya (Teso North) and several ward reps have defected to DAP-K.  Former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende, who had joined ANC, also defected to DAP-K.  Other ANC MPs who decamped are Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Godfrey Osotsi (Nominated) and Aseka Miradi of Khwisero.  Mudavadi remains with MPs John Bunyasi (Nambale), Ernest Kagesi (Vihiga), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Women Rep) and Senator Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) in his fold.  Mudavadi said those running away have been bought or threatened by the State.  “They are buying our MPs who have been threatened with cases like CDF misappropriation and governors with embezzlement of county resources. They wanted to buy all governors,” said Mudavadi.  The way forward for ANC and Ford-Kenya according to Wetang’ula, is to re-strategise and lock out DAP-K.  “After we are done in Nyeri with our Kenya Kwanza alliance rally we will come back home to fix our house and ensure we get all elective seats,” Wetang’ula said at Mululu on Friday.  He took a swipe at DAP-K for lacking structures and claimed it has not complied with the Political Parties Act.  By Special Correspondent | 35 minutes ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 35 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 35 minutes ago By Denis Kabaara | 35 minutes ago