Deputy President William Ruto at a rally in Trans-Nzoia Nzoia County, February 2022. [Osinde Obare, Standard]  As April deadline party primaries draw near, candidates seeking elective seats in Mt Kenya region are avoiding big parties to ensure their names appear on ballot papers in the August polls.  Among small parties that have reaped big are The Service Party, Chama Cha Kazi and Democratic Party.  Yesterday, Chama Cha Kazi party associated with Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria unveiled Rose Waikundi to contest for Nyeri woman representative seat currently held by Rahab Mukami.   Waikundi said she cannot allow herself to undergo party primaries that she claimed are always dogged with rigging and nepotism.  “After undergoing a similar ordeal during last elections in Jubilee Party (JP) nominations, I am now cleverer than before. This time I am urging the electorate not to go for a particular party but individual's ability to deliver,” the aspirant said.  She noted she opted for the decision after realising that most aspirants may be rigged out of the big party’s primaries after the new Political Parties Act came into force.  In what may spell doom for Azimio and UDA parties, candidates who had earlier declared interest to vie on their ticket are now developing cold feet and moving to small parties.   Peter Wachira, who recently resigned from the county government to vie for Tetu parliamentary seat, has also switched to CCK party despite his earlier support for UDA.  "As politicians, we are not stupid not to realise that with crowded nominations, rigging is real and that is why we took this initiative. Our urge to represent our people is unstoppable,” said Wachira.  Political analysts say that the move by candidates to seek seats using different parties may spell doom for UDA whose main aim is to consolidate votes in the region.  "Deputy President William Ruto may be a loser in this region since his party has not formed any working relationship with these small parties and unlike Azimio which is formed by many parties," said Newton Mwangi, CCK coordinator in Nyeri.  Former Cabinet Minister Mwangi Kiunjuri, who is TSP leader, is on record saying that small parties cannot fold in Central and will play a critical role in ensuring that residents in the region get a rightfully share in any government.  "I want to urge residents not to embrace three-piece kind of voting but choose an individual due to his or her performance," said Kiunjuri.     By Fredrick Ooko | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 5 hours ago