Kiambu Governor James Nyoro.  Kiambu governor James Nyoro now says the entire central region should be top priority on Azimio’s table.  Nyoro said based on the number of voters in the region, Azimio must ensure that it is at the centre of its activities.  The governor likened Azimio la Umoja to a company with shareholders and where those with the most shares have the biggest say, to a river that has tributaries.   "We are the tributaries that empty into that big river called Azimio and we shall have a bigger say because of what we are bringing to the table. We are working hard to ensure Jubilee has many elected leaders as possible. This will give us a good platform to bargain," said Nyoro.   Nyoro said the Jubilee Party is now rejuvenated and ready to face opponents in the coming elections.  He was addressing party supporters at Jumuia Conference Centre in Limuru where he affirmed that the Jubilee party was firmly in the Azimio la Umoja movement whose presidential candidate in the August 9 polls is ODM leader Raila Odinga.  "Jubilee is now rejuvenated. We are strengthening the party as we hope to have many members so we can have a say in the coming government," Nyoro said adding, “President Uhuru Kenyatta will soon tour the country after Jubilee's Annual Delegates Conference (NDC) to rally support for Azimio.”  Nyoro said Azimio whose captain is Raila Odinga is a big train that everyone has  already boarded.  He said the head of state has invited them to Jubilee’s National Delegates Conference at the Sagana State Lodge.  “We shall go because he is our father and we shall take the route he will tell us to take. That is part of the agreement we have reached during our meeting here today,” said Nyoro.  The Jubilee NDC is slated for February 25-26, according to the party’s Secretary-General Raphael Tuju who, three weeks ago, issued a notice convening the meeting at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi.  "There are those who have said Jubilee died. The party never died. It was not even punctured as haters have said. Jubilee is still alive and kicking and they will see what we mean by this as we head into the next polls,” he said.  The governor said Jubilee was just taking an afternoon nap.  “Even when a lion is sleeping, there are those who think it is dead. That is until the lion wakes up. And now Jubilee is awake and the roar is loud for everyone to hear. The party is ready to stamp its authority,” he noted.  Nyoro at the same time announced that he will be defending his seat on the Jubilee ticket and urged voters to give him another term.  By Phares Mutembei | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 3 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 5 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 5 days ago