Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were (left) hands a dummy cheque to Rachuonyo South Sub-County Director of Education Nicholas Oyucho. [James Omoro, Standard].  Students from vulnerable families in Kasipul Constituency have benefited from bursary worth Sh36.1 million.  The 5,500 students learning in secondary schools, tertiary colleges and universities have received the funds from the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF).   Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were who was accompanied by nominated MCA Mary Gaya and Central Kasipul MCA Bob Obondo, distributed cheques at the NG-CDF offices in Oyugis town.  Were distributed the cheques to teachers of various schools where the students learn. He said the funds are aimed at enabling students from financially challenged families to acquire education.  In the distribution, secondary school day scholars received a minimum of Sh3,000 while their counterparts in boarding secondary schools and higher learning institutions got a minimum of Sh10,000 each depending on their neediness.  Were said the NG-CDF through his patronage has prioritised education to ensure Kasipul has productive people in the future.  The MP said education is the only avenue through which the life of children from poor families and their counterparts from rich families can be made equal.   “If you want to kill a society, deny children education. This programme is aimed at shaping the lives of children so that we can have a society of various professionals in the future,” Were said.  He said the programme is undertaken through fairness and transparency.  In the distribution, the needy students are identified from the polling station level across the constituency. Residents who live around a polling station identify needy students whose names are submitted to the NG-CDF office for selection.  Gaya said the programme has enabled many students to go to school.  “This is not the first bursary disbursement through this programme in the constituency. This programme has enabled many students who would have been locked out of education by poverty to go to school,” said Gaya.  Gaya who is contesting MCA seat in West Kasipul Ward said the education programme will reduce the level of violence during electioneering periods.  “People who are educated are ever busy and you will hardly find them being used by anybody as tools for violence,” Gaya said.  Obondo said the programme is a sigh of relief to parents.  “Parents are undergoing financial difficulties and this bursary is arelief,” Obondo said.  By Isaiah Gwengi and Harold Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By James Omoro | 5 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 11 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 19 hours ago