The late Joshua Mangwari's parents Esther Bosibori and David Bosire during a funeral service at their farm in Kamuri, Kuresoi North, Nakuru County. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  The family of missing journalist Dickson Bogonko has been thrown into mourning again just a month after they laid to rest his younger brother.  Bogonko’s father David Bosire died on Monday afternoon at their home in Kamuri village, Kuresoi North, at a time the family was still mourning Joshua Mangwari who died on January 16.  “Our father died peacefully on Monday while at home. It is such a pain that we were still healing from the demise of my elder brother Mangwari,” said Shem Onuong’a, the lastborn in the family.  He explained that his death came as a shock to them as the family patriarch was showing signs of recovering his health and memory. “In the last few days has been recovering his memory. On Sunday at around 3 pm he had guests and he started questioning why Mangwari committed suicide,” said Onuong’a.  The family was thrown into confusion, unable to explain to him that his condition was among the factors that pushed Mangwari to the edge.  Mangwari died by suicide after he ingested poison in what is believed to have been depression occasioned by challenges he faced as their 72-year-old father’s caregiver.  “It was troubling for him and us. How do you start explaining to him the circumstances under which Mangwari he died? It was the first time he asked about him,” Onuong’a said.  During Mangwari’s burial, Mzee Bosire who had suffered memory loss was out of touch with the event even as his sons assisted him walk and view his body.  “He has been suffering since my brother went missing in 2013. We have tried our best to ensure he gets his medication in time but it is unfortunate he has died before our missing brother is found,” he said.  Bogonko’s disappearance was linked to his job as a blogger as he fearlessly exposed ills in the country.  Onuong’a explained that he was the bread winner in the family and his disappearance set them back to financial struggles.  “He was very supportive to the family. He gave our parents the land on which their current home is. We are still hopeful that he will one day show up alive and well,” he said.  kgachuhi@standardmedia.co.ke  By Steve Mkawale | 2 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 2 hours ago By Osinde Obare | 4 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 4 hours ago