Ten people were injured and rushed to nearby hospitals. [George Njunge, Standardd]  Three trucks, six cars and houses were destroyed after a gas tanker and separate cylinders on its rear section exploded at Mutarakwa on the Nairobi-Limuru highway.   Earlier on, police are yet to confirm the number of casualties if any.  The explosion ripped apart the truck's chassis and axles apart. [George Njunge, Standard]  Witness reports indicate that the truck had been involved in an accident at around 6 am, but burst into flames hours later as the gas cylinders were being offloaded as efforts to move it from the road were underway. Police and firefighters are at the scene.  Cars were reduced to shells. [George Njunge, Standard]  According to a tweet by St Johns Ambulance Kenya, the tanker and LPG cylinders exploded near Ngenia High School and by 1:41 pm the inferno had been contained.  FIrefighters from Kikuyu and Kiambu handled the inferno.  [George Njunge, Standard]  “The accident involved eight other vehicles (four cars and eight lorries) which have been completely burnt. No fatalities reported and St John Ambulance volunteers have rushed all casualties to nearby hospitals,” one of the first responders said.  St Johns’ ambulance and local police battled to control the crowd and told The Standard that six of the casualties had been rushed to Thogoto Hospital and four others to Tigoni hospital.  The non-exploding-type gas tank flew off the truck's chassis but was stopped by nearby trees. [George Njunge, Standard]  So far, no fatality has been recorded.  Choking in gas fumes, our reporter on the ground, George Njunge, said that roadside bluegum trees and bushes caught fire sparing some nearby houses from the inferno.   Later, Antony Gitonga, Limuru Deputy Sub-County Police Commander confirmed there was leakage from the tank, followed by an explosion where three trailers and six cars were burnt. He also said good samaritans rushed injured persons to Kikuyu National Hospital even though the extent of injuries has not been confirmed.   "Seven Kikuyu National Hospital, we are yet to confirm the extent of injuries, but fatalities...none," said Gitonga.     By  Peterson Githaiga  | 8 hours ago By Standard Team | 10 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 16 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 16 hours ago