Lawyer James Orengo addresses the media after Mumias Sugar Company's case where a Kakamega Court ruled that Sarrai should continue operations. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  The court has allowed the Uganda-based Sarrai Group of Companies to continue operations at Mumias Sugar Company.  Tumaz and Tumaz Enterprises, a company owned by Julius Mwale, a Kakamega resident based in the US, had moved to court to challenge the award of the 20-year lease to Sarrai Group.  But the County Government of Kakamega, through lawyer James Orengo, moved to the court to challenge a move by Tumaz and Tumaz Enterprises to block the new investor from taking over the operations of the collapsed sugar miller. Nelson Havi represented Tumaz in the case.   “That I found there would be no conflict between the order made on December 29, 2021, in Nairobi for a stay from executing any lease agreement or contract in respect of the leasing and operations of the assets of the company and any conservatory orders that may arise from these proceedings,” said Justice Musyoka  Judge Musyoka ordered: “That I hereby grant a conservatory order for the maintenance of the status quo, in terms of letting the interested party (Sarrai Group) to continue with operations, repairs and maintenance of the equipment and others activities in respect to the assets of the company.”    Justice Musyoka stated his orders shall be in existence subject to the final orders of other courts where similar suits were filed challenging the award of the tender to Sarrai Group of Companies.  Orengo, while addressing the press outside the Kakamega Law Courts, said justice had finally been served to the cane farmers who have suffered a lot ever since the miller collapsed.  “I am happy that operations at Mumias will continue after the court pronounced itself on the issue. We want to assure the public that the assets of the company will be protected as per the ruling and the miller was handed over to a safe pair of hands,” said Orengo. Wesley Lichaba, the lawyer representing Sarrai Group said sugar production will start immediately after the ruling.  By Robert Amalemba | 50 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Nathan Ochunge | 8 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 1 day ago