OKA leaders Hon Kalonzo Musyoka, Sen Gideon Moi and Hon Cyrus Jirongo announce a new alliance with Azimio Named Azimio One Kenya Alliance at the OKA Headquarters in Karen this evening. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  One of the missing pieces in the political jigsaw puzzle has finally fallen in place as Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka joins the Azimio la Umoja movement.  On a day of heightened political activity that saw Jubilee and ODM parties sign coalition pacts, the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) too made its voice heard.  In a statement read at the Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka command centre, the principals announced that the alliance has officially initiated open and structured dialogue with like-minded political formations - namely Jubilee Coalition and the ODM Party.   “We are open to the formation of a Grand Coalition to be known as the Azimio - One Kenya Alliance that shall be anchored on three equal pillars,” stated Kalonzo in a late televised address.  “As OKA, we firmly believe in open, honest, and structured dialogue whose basis is the promotion of national unity; upholding and respecting the dignity of all Kenyans; ending the culture of corruption and impunity, and restoring the decency of living within our borders.”  The former vice president however stood his ground that the Alliance that will not fold its member parties to join the cluster parties that have already signed coalition pacts with the Raila Odinga-led Orange Democratic Movement and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party to ultimately form the Azimio la Umoja movement.  “There is no one swallowing (sic) OKA, we stress on equality of partnership... this partnership which I’m quite sure is good for the country,” added Kalonzo.  To this effect, he said, OKA principals will, on Monday officially sign the Coalition Agreement where the formation led by Gideon Moi (Kanu), Martha Karua (NARC), Cyrus Jirongo (UDP) and Kalonzo will be fielding their presidential candidate.  “For the avoidance of doubt, OKA will be unveiling its presidential flag bearer. After signing the coalition agreement, we shall deposit it the with the Registrar of Political Parties,” said the Wiper leader who flanked by the two other principals. Karua was absent.  Raila’s bagging of Kalonzo tilts the election scales in his favour, bolstering his bid for the presidency.  The entry of Kalonzo is seen as a gateway for Raila to secure the more than 1.6 million votes from the lower eastern region brought on the table by the Wiper leader and which he also delivered to in the 2013 and 2017 elections.  The decision by newfound union between OKA and Azimio also comes on a day when Jubilee party resolved to work with 10 other parties including Kenya Union Party (KUP), Pamoja Alliance (PAA), United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Party of National Unity and the Upya party associated with Treasury CS Ukur Yattani.  It came hours before today’s scheduled national delegates conferences for both Jubilee and ODM.  Just two days after Uhuru’s Sagana III electrifying address, the development now deals a second blow to Deputy President William Ruto who was said to be wooing Kalonzo and the OKA outfit to join his team.  By Brian Otieno | 4 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 7 hours ago By James Wanzala | 9 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 14 hours ago