Azimio La Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga speaking at a past event. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga is today expected to arrive in the country from India, and head to the Coast for a four-day tour of the region to drum up support for Azimio la Umoja.  Speaking to The Standard on phone yesterday, the ODM leader said he will arrive at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in the afternoon.  “Yes I am arriving in the afternoon depending on the flight I get, or even earlier, maybe in the morning,” said Raila. At the same time, according to the Press Secretary of Raila Odinga presidential campaign secretariat Dennis Onsarigo, Raila will attend the Narc and Muungano party joint National Delegates Conference scheduled for today at the Bomas of Kenya.   Narc is led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu while Muungano is led by Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana. The two have been rallying their support Raila’s presidential bid through Azimio la Umoja. While in India where he had taken his daughter Rosemary Odinga for an eye check-up, the ODM leader met the country’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi.    Raila said he will head to Coast for political rallies in Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Taita Taveta.  “I am coming for the rallies on Saturday in Kilifi and Sunday at Tononoka grounds,” he said.  ODM Mombasa branch chairman Mohamed Khamis Dee yesterday said the party officials will today meet with the local MPs and other leaders to plan for the rally.  “Tononoka rally will be the mother of rallies in Mombasa,” said Dee and called upon party supporters to turn up in large numbers.  Those jostling to catch Raila’s attention while in Mombasa are businessman Suleiman Shahbal, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and Mombasa Deputy Governor Dr William Kingi who are all eyeing the governor seat for Mombasa.  Dee confirmed that the advance team of Raila have already arrived in Mombasa and was working closely with the local leaders to ensure the rally succeeds.  In Kilifi ODM chairman Teddy Mwambire said they were also ready for the whirlwind tour of the county by the party leader.  Despite having been away leaders allied to Azimio have been holding political rallies in various parts of the country. Among the leaders include former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya.  By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 9 hours ago