Tiaty MP William Kamket at a peace meeting in Akwitchatis, Baringo County. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Police have listed areas in Baringo County affected by banditry as operations to flush out the criminals began yesterday.  Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Friday ordered an immediate operation to flush out armed herders in Baringo.  Dr Matiang’i issued the orders in a meeting attended by Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and the Principal Secretary Ministry of Interior Karanja Kibicho.   The top security team from the region led by Regional Commissioner Maalim Mohamed also attended the meeting. Governors Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) attended the meeting in Nakuru Sarova Woodland Hotel. MPs and Members of County Assemblies from the three counties were also present.  Following the directive, Baringo County Police Commander Robinson Ndiwa yesterday the operation will be conducted mainly in areas bordering Tiaty sub-county.  “They are Yatya, Kesumet, Ngaratuko, Kagir, Arabal, Ngalecha, Kasiela, Ramacha, Mukutani, Nasukuro and Lamaiwe,” Ndiwa said.  Speaking to his office in Kabarnet, Ndiwa added that the operation will be severe and meant to restore sanity in Baringo North and South.  Ndiwa regretted that the bandits had displaced the locals and learning in 15 schools has been affected.  “We are going to deter movement of the bandits by erecting mobile roadblocks to stop them from fleeing,” Ndiwa said.  Ndiwa revealed that the national government is in the process of recruiting 80 National Police Reservists.  He stated that the NPR who are familiar with the terrain will be able to help in complementing police as they work on restoring the peace.  Meanwhile, leaders from Tiaty have called on herders to co-exist peacefully with their neighbors.  Led by Tiaty MP William Kamket, the leaders called on the herders to stop vandalizing property and engage in talks over grazing land.  “To the boys who have moved with livestock to Mochongoi and Arabal should stop vandalizing other people’s property. We need to live with others in peace,” he said.  He warned the herders that they are on their own if they continue disturbing their neighbors.  By Lynn Kolongei | 3 hours ago By Osinde Obare and Lynn Kolongei | 12 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 12 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 14 hours ago