Some of the overflowing dust bins in Bomet town [Gilbert Kimutai, Standard]  County governments are on the spot over failure to conserve the environment. According to a National Environmental Complaints Committee report, the devolved units have frustrated efforts towards proper waste management.   Lack of sewerage infrastructure, illegal dumping of waste and disposal of untreated industrial waste are among teething challenges facing counties.  The report released this month, decried the state of waste management, warning that it was getting worst. While the report revealed that most of the dumpsites in Kenya’s major towns are not licensed as required by law, they are located in sensitive areas like near residential areas and close to water sources. “Sewage disposal in Kenya’s major towns is a public health concern. Improper disposal has resulted in water contamination giving rise to waterborne diseases,” the report read in part.  It flagged Kabarnet town in Baringo County as having no sewer line as well as sewerage treatment plants.    And while the lack of sewerage infrastructure in some urban areas is a challenge, the report says most urban centers in areas like Nairobi use old and dilapidated facilities.   Bio-digesters and septic tanks are inefficient due to limited capacities.  “Sewerage facilities were designed decades ago and have not been upgraded. Increased population has led to these worn-out facilities being overwhelmed and constantly get blocked discharging sewage into the environment,” it notes.  The report also flagged industrial waste as a concern. Most sugar factories lack proper waste management facilities and often release untreated effluent to water courses.  Trans Mara Sugar Company is noted as draining leachate into Keyian River.   “The effluent treatment plants at the sugar factories are overwhelmed and there are several “accidental” leaks into the environment and water courses,” the report noted.  The report also highlighted gold mining as impacting negatively on the environment, resulting in water pollution as well as exposing thousands to harmful chemicals.  Gold mining is also blamed for land degradation as a result of abandoned deep shafts dug underground to retrieve the ore.   The report recommended for innovation and research to come up with modern technologies for managing the environment. It also recommended allocation of adequate resources to environmental management and harmonisation of laws on conservation.  By Obare Osinde | 25 minutes ago By Caroline Chebet | 25 minutes ago By Nikko Tanui | 25 minutes ago By Mike Ekutan | 1 day ago