President Uhuru Kenyatta gives his remarks when he hosted youth leaders at State House, Nairobi. [PSCU]   Azimio la Umoja presidential campaign team has defended President Uhuru Kenyatta’s support for ODM leader Raila Odinga in the succession race, saying that it is within his right to back a candidate of his choice.  The team which moved to consolidate Raila’s support in his Nyanza backyard with a mission to contain voter apathy were upbeat that the ODM boss will trounce Deputy President William Ruto in the coming polls.  Led by Kieni MP Kanini Kega, the Azimio troop said they were waiting for Jubilee’s National Delegates Conference (NDC) for Uhuru to formally endorse Raila for the top seat.  Yesterday, Raila’s troops lauded the president for his throwing his weight behind his Handshake partner. They noted that even in other countries, outgoing presidents have always supported their favourite candidates to take over the reins.  “We have heard some people complain that the president should not support a presidential candidate. It is within his rights to support a candidate of his choice,” said ODM chairman John Mbadi.  Riding on an Azimio wave that is sweeping through the country, the Raila-Uhuru allies rallied residents to support the ODM leader saying he is the best bet.  They addressed thousands of residents at a number of stops in Migori County.  Yesterday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who led the campaign brigade said the DP has not done anything to earn the presidency.  “He has been a Deputy President since 2013 and all he has been doing is giving Kenyans empty promises,” said Joho.  Other leaders who attended the rallies included Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina, MPs Sabina Chege (Murang’a Woman Rep) Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Peter Masara (Suna West), John Mbadi (Suba South), Walter Owino (Awendo) and Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga) and Mark Nyamita (Uriri).[Harold Odhiambo and Anne Atieno]  By Oscar Obonyo | 10 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 10 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 10 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 15 hours ago