Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria hosts OKA principles on Sunday [Courtesy]  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria says he will only join the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) if its end goal is not forming a coalition with Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja.  Kuria, who spoke following a meeting with some of the OKA principles at his home on Sunday, said the Azimio coalition was incompatible with his Chama Cha Kazi party.  The MP was hosting Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Martha Karua (NARC-K), Cyrus Jirongo (UDP) and KANU Executive Director George Wainaina who was representing senator Gideon Moi.  "Whereas we share many ideals between Chama Cha Kazi and OKA, we agreed to work together as long as OKA is not joining the Azimio Coalition," said Kuria in a Facebook post. Kuria's sentiments comes at a time when OKA is expected to sign a coalition agreement with Azimio la Umoja on Monday, February 28, and thereafter deposit it with the Registrar of Political Parties.  In addition, OKA hinted at unveilling its preferred presidential candidate.  “There is nobody swallowing OKA…we stress equality of partnership. It is good for Kenya and we are rearing to go,” said Kalonzo.  On his part, Kuria has announced he will be vying for the Kiambu gubernatorial seat on his Chama Cha Kazi party come August 9, elections.  He has previously made it clear that he will neither be supporting Azimio la Umoja, led by Odinga nor Kenya Kwanza led by Deputy President William Ruto.  “Personally, Kenya Kwanza was formed while I was in a hospital bed and so was Azimio, I will be crazy to say that I support things that were formed while I was ill. I just get anecdotes of what they stand for, I don’t understand them and I need time,” Kuria said during a previous interview with Citizen TV.  Kuria returned to the country this month after spending three months at a hospital in Dubai where he had surgery after sustaining third-degree burns from a malfunctioning heating mat.  By Special Correspondent | 35 minutes ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 35 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 35 minutes ago By Denis Kabaara | 35 minutes ago