ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi addresses Wananchi of Ilbisil, Kajiado during the Kenya Kwanza rally. [Susan Nyamasege/DPPS]  For a man who cuts the image of an indefatigable campaigner, holding multiple rallies in a day, Deputy President William Ruto’s absence on the political scene since Monday has set tongues wagging.  With a record 135 rallies within 30 days in November last year, Ruto came out as a ruthless campaigner and with steady control of his United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ship.  The DP would have utilised the four days he has been absent to traverse the country addressing numerous rallies, holding meetings with women and grass root leaders or receiving new members to UDA at his official Karen residence in Nairobi. His absence became conspicuous when Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula took charge of Kenya Kwanza Alliance tour of Westlands on Tuesday. Yesterday, sources said the DP was visiting his daughter June Ruto, who lives with her husband Dr Alexander Ezenagu in Dubai. Yesterday, the Director of Communications at the office of the Deputy President Emmanuel Talam said Ruto was away on private business.    “He is out of the country on a personal family matter. He visited his daughter in Dubai and will come back on Thursday night and on Friday he will continue with rallies in Voi, Mwatate and Kilifi,” said Talam.  Another source said the DP has confidence in Mudavadi, Wetang’ula and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale leading the campaigns.  “He deserves the break, with new allies on the campaign trail. He is confident and can take rest in between, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have energised his campaigns,” said the source.  This is the third time in a year the DP was making a private visit outside the country. Ruto’s Dubai trip comes six months after he was denied clearance to fly to Uganda in August last year. At the time, he was kept for five hours at Wilson Airport, Nairobi, with his entourage before he retreated back to his residence.  Those in the DP’s entourage included MPs Oscar Sudi, Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Turkish businessman Harun Aydin, Dr David Langat Bett, Dr Eric Ruto and Elijah Rono. After the aborted trip, Ruto tweeted “Isorait…Tuwachie Mungu.”   Prior to the aborted Ugandan trip, Ruto had made private visits to Uganda and Zanzibar.   In the trip to Uganda, Ruto was guest of honour during the official laying of the foundation stone for construction of the biological drugs and m-RNA vaccine vaccine manufacturing facility in Matuga, Wakiso.     By Peterson Githaiga | 11 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 19 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 20 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago