Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua. [File, Standard]  Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua claims that the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) is not joining the Azimio la Umoja, but just opened doors for negotiations with them.  Wambua’s sentiments came a day after the Jubilee party threw its weight behind Azimio la Umoja, hinting at supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga.  In an interview on KTN News’ Checkpoint on Sunday night, Kitui Senator said that his party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka, had opened doors for negotiations with like-minded political formations.  He added that they had not formally joined Azimio la Umoja saying people should stop jumping to non-existing conclusions. “The main reason I am here is to put the record straight. OKA is not joining Azimio la Umoja. My party leader Kalonzo said OKA was opening doors for negotiations not joining Azimio,” he said.  The Wiper party lawmaker attributed the indecision by the party leader to a lack of trust, citing the previous betrayal.  “Kalonzo has said in the past that they agreed to support Raila in 2013 and 2017 and in turn he was to support Kalonzo in 2022,’ Wambua told KTN News.  Then went on “Joining Azimio la Umoja is the desired outcome but negotiations could end up either way. It has not been and will not be,”  According to the OKA principles, the two coalitions had joined forces and each proposed a presidential candidate whom they will unveil in a few weeks' time.  When asked why his party leader was present at the Jubilee NDC at KICC, but missing in action at the ODM’s Kasarani event, Wambua said it was his choice to make.  “Kalonzo was invited to both the ODM and Jubilee NDC. He chose to attend Jubilee’s NDC and sent representatives to the ODM NDC at Kasarani. It was his choice to make,” Wambua answered.  Wambua claims his party leader was not ready to deputise Odinga in his presidential bid. He has also reiterated that Kalonzo was not ready to deputise Raila Odinga for a third presidential election.  Despite this, other leaders from the Ukmbani leaders are fully behind Raila Odinga's candidature and continue to persuade the Wiper boss to join the Azimio camp, support Odinga's presidential bid.  However, Odinga and Kalonzo have both made it clear that there were negotiations to pick the presidential candidate.  "Both Azimio (la Umoja) and OKA will have a conversation of producing a presidential candidate. As wiper, we are not ready to deputise Raila Odinga," he stood his ground.  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) had scheduled a meeting for Monday, February 28, 2022, to sign and hand over the coalitions agreement to the Office of the Registrar of political parties.  The meeting was postponed on Sunday night in a statement by OKA spokesperson Fredrick Okango.  He said the move was to accommodate new partners.  Okango noted that the coalition that brings together principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Sen Gideon Moi (Kanu), Martha Karua (NARC) and Cyrus Jirongo (UDP) seeks to offer inclusive leadership and decided to postpone the meeting after receiving requests from other political formations.  By Jacob Ngetich  | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 8 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 11 hours ago