Deputy President William Ruto speaks at Maua, Igembe South, February 20, 2022. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday cautioned politicians against reckless utterances as the country prepares for elections.  Ruto, who spoke in Meru County during his three day visit to the region, asked politicians to desist from utterances that could cause divisions.  Accompanied by Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi, Ruto said leaders should exercise caution to ensure the country remains united.  The DP said leaders should sell their development agenda, without making what he termed "unnecessary" talk.   "All of us, as leaders, must be careful. We should make sure the campaign is about our agenda," Ruto said after attending a mass at St John's Maua Catholic Church in Igembe.  Ruto said Kenyans were mature people, able to know the leaders who could deliver their aspirations.  "Let us not say things that can bring divisions among Kenyans. We want everybody to express themselves, state their manifestos. Kenyans understand and will be able to identify the best," he said.  Ruto said politicians were expected to sell their vision without making utterances that could cause animosity.  Ruto, who was making his sixth visit to Maua since the 2017 election, the last in October last year, said he was keen to see Maua town was developed as it is a key economic hub.  He said the second phase of the town's sewerage and water supply system had started, in addition to improving tarmac roads around it.  "I have been here many times. We have built friendships with you and your leaders," he said.  Some of the projects that had been delivered by the government was building of the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC), which had students, and a technical training institute.   He said KMTC would churn out nurses and other personnel to actualise the Universal Health Coverage.  "We are completing the Maua TTI. We have installed Sh50 million worth of equipment in the next budget because we want to empower youths with skills," he said.  Senator Linturi said the miraa sector, which supports livelihoods in the region, had collapsed.  Ruto said the problem of closure of markets would be solved in a matter of months.  The residents have for five years decried the ban of miraa in Somalia, the biggest market.  Ruto said he wanted to help those who depend on miraa because his priority was to empower people economically.  By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Robert Abong'o | 4 hours ago