Nairobi aerial view and its skyline.[Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Most parts of the country will experience generally sunny and dry conditions throughout this month, the Kenya Meteorological Department has announced.  “Occasional rainfall is however likely to occur over a few places in the Lake Victoria Basin, highlands west of the Rift Valley, southern Rift Valley, parts of the highlands east of the Rift Valley, including Nairobi, and parts of the South-eastern lowlands,” read the statement sent to newsrooms yesterday.  A forecast shows rainfall over most of the country will be near average, except over a few areas bordering Tanzania.  The Lake Victoria basin, highlands west of the Rift-Valley, central and South Rift are likely to experience generally dry conditions for most of the month. “However occasional rainfall is expected during the month, especially in the Lake Victoria basin and the Southern Rift Valley,” states the department.    It further says that North-Western region will experience sunny and dry conditions, with maximum temperatures predicted to hit 40 degrees centigrade.  Nairobi and neighbouring counties, including Kiambu, are likely to experience sunny and dry conditions this month and the heat is likely to range from 22°C to 31°C.  The weatherman says the sunny and dry conditions in most of the country will lead to reduction in pasture and food for wildlife and livestock, especially in arid and semi-arid areas.  The Ministry of Interior has been urged to put in place measures to avert human-to-human or human-to-wildlife conflict that may arise from the extreme weather.  “Dusty conditions that are expected during the month may also provide favourable conditions for outbreaks of respiratory diseases,” the department warned.  It said the dry season may lead to drying of vegetation, which is likely to spark wildfires.  The Ministry of Environment and other stakeholders were also advised to put in place measures to conserve the environment.  Besides, the dry conditions are likely to negatively impact hydro-power generation, the Meteorological Department warned.     By Stephanie Wangari | 6 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 9 hours ago By Dominic Omondi | 9 hours ago By Patrick Alushula | 9 hours ago