An IEBC clerk takes fingerprints of a member of the public during the 2022 General Elections registration in Mugumoini ward, Kibra, Nairobi. [File, Standard]  The conduct of a General Election should be beyond reproach in any civilised democracy. To inspire confidence in the process, all competitors must respect the referee and the process. It is, therefore, disappointing and unfortunate that some politicians could put disrepute into the process through reckless utterances.  Claims that some powerful individuals could tinker with the numbers or the process to favour certain contestants are unhelpful and uncalled for. The so-called “deep state” or “system” should not be entertained by any self-respecting democrat, more so by a political leader. While such remarks, especially in a political rally could excite a crowd, they could easily spark hatred and put doubt in the mind of a voter.  Such dangerous claims could also inform voter apathy and deny Kenyans deserving political leadership. They could also form the basis of political violence, especially if voters feel cheated after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission announces the winner.  Kenya has been down the road of post-election violence before, which was fueled by politicians’ utterances. In the 2007/8 political clashes, some 1,300 Kenyans were killed and more than half a million displaced from their homes. The displaced are yet to be fully resettled more than a decade after the chaos. Scars of the bloodletting are fresh in the bodies and minds of survivors.  More recently in 2017, another 24 Kenyans, including Baby Pendo, lost their lives in the aftermath of the disputed presidential election. Our nation cannot take that path again.  All indications are that this year’s elections will be hotly contested. The aspirants have already hit the campaign trail even before the start of the election period. Politicians are holding huge rallies and making all manner of promises to lure voters. Others have chosen to mudsling their opponents at any available platform instead of articulating their policies.  Kenyans are burdened by unemployment, poverty, high cost of healthcare, rising cost of basic items, poor road infrastructure and exorbitant school fees. How will the competing political camps help address such issues? What are their solutions to vices such as corruption and disrespect to the rule of law and impunity? If politicians pronounced themselves on such critical matters during their rallies, Kenyan voters will make informed choices.  But the worst lot of politicians are those intimidating their rivals on the campaign trail. Claims such as nobody can “steal my votes” or “we know how to cook numbers” are unwelcome at this point in time. Such remarks are dangerous and undemocratic. Indeed, when leaders make such claims, they should not only provide evidence but also be ready to face the consequences.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago