Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka speaks at Kadongo Grounds in Kisauni. [Omondi Onyango, Standard]  Wiper Democratic Movement Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday said coalition talks with ODM leader Raila Odinga would be structured, in good faith and all partners treated as equals.  Dismissing claims that he held talks with Raila to join Azimio la Umoja, the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principal said such discussion will be done in the open.  Kalonzo and other One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Martha Karua (Narc-K) started their tour of the Coast region yesterday. They held their first rally at Kadongo Grounds in Kisauni.   Before the rally, the Wiper leader was interviewed by a local TV station, where he said he was willing to work with the Azimio team only after a deal has been hammered on a common agenda.  Kalonzo denied he and Kanu chairman held coalition talks with Raila and termed reports about the meeting as propaganda meant to woo him to Azimio la Umoja.  Media propaganda  The Wiper boss, who was accompanied by Gideon and Narc-Kenya's Karua at an OKA rally at Kadongo Grounds in Kisauni said such talks would be done in the open in the interest of the nation.  “I suspect a media propaganda. There was no meeting with Raila and Moi to discuss a coalition. If there are to be talks, it will be in the open in the interest of the nation. I am not being pulled to Azimio,” Kalonzo said.  Kalonzo said he has the necessary experience to gun for the top seat. He said he can only engage in talks based on structured dialogue, good faith and equal partners.  “Those who want talks with us must demonstrate good faith, allow structured dialogue and deal with us based on equal partnership,” Kalonzo said.  Gideon and Karua said OKA leaders were best placed to slay the ghost of corruption and revive the economy. The Kanu boss urged Kenyans to choose leaders who will protect public resources from plunder adding that the OKA government will treat graft like murder.  He said the vices deny Kenyans drugs in hospitals and other crucial services. “The days of those stealing public resources are numbered. The graft lords will pay dearly. OKA government will seal all corruption loopholes because they have caused a lack of drugs in our hospitals. It is only OKA leaders who will protect public resources and take care of the interests of all Kenyans,” he said.  Karua said success in the fight against graft will ensure no Kenyan goes without food. It will guarantee shelter and access to education and health services, she said. Kitui Senator Enock Wambua dismissed reports that Kalonzo and Gideon met Raila over coalition talks.  Kalonzo said OKA will make Mombasa and Lamu free ports if it wins the presidency and turn Mombasa into a commercial hub. They will make the Mombasa-Nairobi highway a dual carriageway.   By Moses Nyamori | 50 minutes ago By Barrack Muluka | 1 hour ago By Phares Mutembei | 8 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 8 hours ago