Businessman Chris Obure at a Milimani court on Wednesday, February 23, 2022. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  A Nairobi court was yesterday told how a businessman was killed in his house in Kilimani, Nairobi after a party. The businessman, Kelvin Omwenga was killed on August 20, 2020.  John Mbugua Mungai who is an IT expert made the revelations while testifying before Milimani Principal Magistrate Bernard Ochoi.  Mungai recounted Kelvin’s last moments.  He told the court that on the fateful day, the deceased had hosted a party and invited friends. “It was after the party at around 11pm that Robert Bodo Ouko followed Kelvin to his bedroom,” said Mungai.    The witness said after a short while, he heard a loud bang.  After the bang, Mungai told the court that Kelvin’s brother, Wycliffe Omwenga rushed to the bedroom and found Ouko holding a gun and Kelvin on the floor with blood oozing from his chest. “The brother of the deceased came back to the sitting room and told the people who were there that Ouko had shot Kelvin,” said Mungai.  He added that with other five guests, they rushed to the bedroom to establish what had happened.  He said they met Ouko coming out of the bedroom, shouting “Kelvin has shot himself.”  When they entered the bedroom, they found Omwenga on the floor with a gunshot wound in his chest.  Mungai added that together with his friends who had attended the party organised by Kelvin, they rushed him to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival.  He clarified to the magistrate that Ouko did not accompany them to the hospital but joined them at Kilimani Police Station where they had gone to report the shooting.  Ouko is charged alongside Chris Obure with misuse of a firearm. They are also facing charges in the High Court for killing Kelvin.  Obure was granted a cash bail of Sh2 million and Ouko a cash bail of Sh500,000.     By Mate Tongola | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 14 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura and David Njaaga | 22 hours ago By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 1 day ago