A dispute over property ownership has erupted between Bishop Jackson Mwangi of Victorious Community Church Kenya in Mbaruk Ward and the Nakuru East Ward Representative Humphrey Mwaniki.  The dispute arose after Mwaniki sent youths to demolish the church and its fence standing on a quarter acre land on Tuesday at around 5am. The youths managed to demolish the iron sheet fence but were stopped by police and some arrested. Mwangi told The Standard that he called the police after a faithful informed him that the alleged goons were demolishing the fence and were attempting to remove the gate.  He said that the youths claimed that they had been sent by the civic leader in his attempt to reclaim his alleged property.  “I went to the area chief and found the MCA there. He claimed that the property belonged to him and admitted sending the youths to demolish the fence,” said Mwangi.  Mwangi said that the church is one of the branches he has in Kenya and he built it legally in 2015 and has stayed without interruptions until Tuesday morning.  “I paid Sh500,000 in an agreement by the owner of the land and I took possession. I built the church here and I have been worshipping here since then,” he said while pointing at the location.  He condemned Mwaniki’s action and wondered why the MCA sent the youths at 5am in the morning when people are still asleep.  “The MCA admitted that he ordered the demolition. He should know better being a county lawmaker and follow the due processes of claiming ownership,” he said.  Mwangi vowed not to leave the property or demolish the church without a court order or notice.  “I do not care if he has the title deed as he claims. I am not moving here unless the court orders me to or I am issued with a notice from the owner,” he said.  Mary Muhuru, the property owner said that she sold the property to the bishop. Ms Muhuru said the bishop paid over Sh500,000 for it.    By Robert Kiplangat | 17 hours ago By Caroline Chebet | 17 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 17 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 17 hours ago