Former Mining and Petroleum CS John Munyes accompanied Defence CS Eugen Wamalwa during his launch for Turkana governor seat in Lodwar. [Bakari Angela, Standard]  Former Mining and Petroleum CS John Munyes has received a major boost in his quest to be Turkana Governor after Turkana Senator Malachy Ekal quit UDA to join his camp.  This occurred at Mr Munyes’ launch for the county’s top position in Lodwar town on Saturday.  The event was attended by Defence CS Eugene Wamwalwa, who said he represented President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga.  The UDA team, with the backing of Governor Josphat Nanok, had settled on Turkana Central MP John Lodepe for the same post at a consensus last month, but Turkana County Speaker Ekitela Lokaale, who now wants to be governor there, opposed the move. Mr Nanok, who was elected on ODM, is serving his last term.  Munyes appealed to Turkana residents to elect a leader with the experience to use the county’s resources to end poverty and perennial hunger.  Turkana South MP James Lomemen, also out to succeed Nanok, joined Upya Party, associated with Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. “When you search Turkana on the internet, what comes out is poverty, and this is what I am seeking to end. The only solution to fight poverty in Turkana is to elect Azimio leaders and Munyes as the governor of Turkana,” Munyes said, adding: “I will now go round Turkana to thank you for your continued support and to seek for your votes.”  Munyes was made a Turkana elder and community spokesman at the event also dubbed a homecoming.  Mr Ekal, who was eying the governor position through UDA, said there was discrimination in the party. He blamed Nanok for using his position in UDA. “I wanted to be your governor, and I agreed to support the aspirant selected during the consensus. Days later our governor fronted a relative to run against me in UDA,” Ekal said, adding: “I’m now consulting with Munyes and other leaders. I may vie with Jubilee if Munyes convinces me it is the best for our county. I am also in talks with Wiper Party and I will make my decision soon”.  Mr Wamalwa said Munyes was the best bet for Turkana, given his experience in Cabinet during President Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru’s tenures.  He said the county was endowed with resources and vast arable land, expressing confidence that Munyes would turn the resources around to develop Turkana.  “Turkana could not be crying about water if it had the right leadership,” Wamalwa said.     By Harold Odhiambo | 13 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony and Stephen Ruto | 2 days ago By Daniel Chege | 2 days ago