ODM party leader and also Azimio flag bearer Raila Odinga during a meeting with Kipsigis grassroots leaders from South-Rift on February 23, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga says Deputy President William Ruto was part of the problem during the Mau evictions which left at least 100,000 people displaced from a place they had called home for more than 40 years.  Addressing leaders from South Rift - an that was at the center of the evictions - in Nairobi yesterday, Raila assured them that remedying the problem will be part of his agenda if he wins the presidency.  “We had been working with different partners to ensure all the people living within Mau Forest are resettled but politicians saw it as an opportunity for politicking,” said the ODM leader.  In the run up to the 2013 elections, a Cabinet decision made years before to conduct evictions in forest areas was used by politicians from Rift Valley as a campaign agenda against the ODM leader.   Despite Ruto and Raila being in Cabinet at the time, the eviction deviated from being an attempt to protect Kenya’s water tower to a campaign agenda.  The ODM leader recounted politicians’ involvement in the process where they rallied residents not to leave the forest. What followed were forced evictions tainted with police violence and destruction of property.  “Now they are saying they want to deal with the plight of those evicted from Mau. You (Ruto) are the one who brought that problem. You are part of the problem, you cannot be part of the solution,” said Raila. The former premier, at the same time, questioned the source of money he says Ruto has been offering them as donations in Churches and schools as part of his campaign strategy.   “Where is the money coming from?” posed Raila. While rallying the Rift Valley leaders to support Azimio la Umoja and mobilise support for his bid in the South Rift, the ODM leader promised the locals an economic revolution which will see his government stem corruption and spend resources in social welfare programmes.  Raila was accompanied by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Kisii Governor James Ongwae, former minister Sally Kosgei and Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi.  By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago