Military vehicles are seen on a street on the outskirts of the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk, Ukraine February 23, 2022. [Reuters]  Russian forces fired missiles at several Ukrainian cities and landed troops on its south coast on Thursday, officials and media said, after President Vladimir Putin authorised what he called a special military operation in the east.  Shortly after Putin spoke in a televised address on Russian state TV, explosions could be heard in the pre-dawn quiet of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv. Gunfire rattled near the capital's main airport, the Interfax news agency said.  "Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes," Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter.  "This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now."   U.S. President Joe Biden said his prayers were with the people of Ukraine "as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces".  Russia has been demanding an end to NATO's eastward expansion.  Putin said he had authorised the special military operation in breakaway areas of eastern Ukraine after Russia had been left with no choice but to defend itself against what he said were threats emanating from modern Ukraine.  "Russia cannot feel safe, develop, and exist with a constant threat emanating from the territory of modern Ukraine," Putin said. "All responsibility for bloodshed will be on the conscience of the ruling regime in Ukraine."   The full scope of the Russian military operation was not immediately clear but Putin said: "Our plans do not include the occupation of Ukrainian territories. We are not going to impose anything by force."  Speaking as the U.N. Security Council held an emergency meeting in New York, Putin said he had ordered Russian forces to protect the people and appealed to the Ukrainian military to lay down their arms.  Ukraine's military command centres in Kyiv and the city of Kharkiv in the northeast had been struck by missiles, a Ukrainian news site cited an official as saying, while Russian troops had landed in the southern port cities of Odessa and Mariupol, Interfax Ukraine reported.  A military vehicle is seen on a street on the outskirts of the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk, Ukraine February 24, 2022. [Reuters]  Explosions also rocked the breakaway eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk and civilian aircraft were warned away from the region. read more  Hours earlier, pro-Russian separatists issued a plea to Moscow for help to stop alleged Ukrainian aggression - claims the United States dismissed as Russian propaganda.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Wednesday said Moscow had approved an offensive and had not replied to an invitation for talks.  Putin repeated his position that NATO expansion to include Ukraine was unacceptable and said Russia had been left with no choice but to defend itself against what he said were threats emanating from Ukraine.  'Decisive way'  Biden said Putin had chosen a premeditated war that would bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering.  "Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable," he said.  He said he would announce further sanctions on Russia on Thursday, in addition to financial measures imposed this week.  NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg strongly condemned Russia's "reckless and unprovoked attack" on Ukraine and said NATO allies would meet to tackle the consequences of Moscow's "aggressive actions".  U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres made a last-minute plea to Putin to stop the war "in the name of humanity', after the Russian leader announced the military operation.  "President Putin, in the name of humanity, bring your troops back to Russia," Guterres said, speaking after the Security Council meeting.  A military vehicle is seen on a street on the outskirts of the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk, Ukraine February 23, 2022. [Reuters]  The consequences of a war would be devastating for Ukraine and far-reaching for the global economy, he said.  Russia's U.N. envoy said his country was not being aggressive against the Ukrainian people but against the "junta" in Kyiv.  Ukraine earlier restricted civilian flights in its airspace due to "potential hazard", hours after a conflict zone monitor warned airlines should stop overflights over the risk of an unintended shooting down or cyber attack.  Convoys of military equipment including nine tanks were seen moving towards Donetsk earlier on Wednesday from the direction of the Russian border, a Reuters witness reported.  Shelling had intensified since Monday when Putin recognised two separatist regions as independent and ordered the deployment of what he called peacekeepers, a move the West called the start of an invasion.  The Ukrainian government on Wednesday also announced compulsory military service for all men of fighting age.  Western countries and Japan imposed sanctions on Russian banks and individuals but have held off their toughest measures until an invasion began.  The United States stepped up the pressure on Wednesday by imposing penalties on the Russian firm building the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and its corporate officers.  Germany on Tuesday froze approvals for the pipeline, which has been built but was not yet in operation, amid concerns it could allow Moscow to weaponize energy supplies to Europe.  By Reuters | 20 minutes ago By Reuters | 22 hours ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago