Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi (centre) and Secretary-General Nick Salat (right) hand over a new gold membership card and a cap to Westlands parliamentary aspirant Betty Adera at the party's headquarters in Nairobi, yesterday. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi hosted about 500 aspirants in an engagement forum, as the party charts a political path ahead of the General Election. Gideon urged the aspirants not be swayed to other political outfits, as Kanu, being a member of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA), was in negotiations with Azimio la Umoja movement.  “This time round we are ready to negotiate with them because we have the time, energy and the resources. We are negotiating under OKA, so we can get a good deal. But my primary role is to fight for the interests of our party,” Gideon said during the meeting held at the Kanu headquarters in Nairobi.  The party leader, who is also Baringo Senator, said they sought coalition with Azimio la Umoja as equal partners. “I’m convinced of the direction our members want us to take, we will soon announce the outcome,” he said.  He pledged to hold cluster meetings with supporters countrywide, urging the aspirants not to be scared by crowds in their opponents’ rallies.  “Crowds don’t translate to votes; Raila knows this better. You saw him in 2007, 2013, 2017, 1992, but he still didn’t win. We talk on behalf of the silent majority, who will make the decision on August 9. The rest is just a show. Now let the dance begin,” said Moi.    He urged the members to recruit more people for Kanu, and promised that they would be in the next government. He also assured the aspirants that the negotiations would look into zoning during nominations for particular dominant parties in certain regions.  The aspirants had urged party officials to ensure some Kanu aspirants were not locked out in particular areas. Gideon said Kanu had the vanguard for the people’s prosperity, adding that since its formation, the party brought the minority communities to the national political limelight.  Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat said the party settled for Azimio la Umoja as their preferred coalition partner because they shared ideologies.  Tiaty MP William Kamket said Kanu’s main focus would be to get as many positions as possible in Parliament and county assemblies. “We are against zoning because a coalition could settle for a weak candidate due to party dominance, but in reality there are stronger candidates from other parties,” said Mr Kamket.  Some aspirants from pastoralist communities raised concerns over a rigid vetting process for members along the borders. They called for fair and transparent nominations by the National Elections Board.  Later, Kanu officials received a compliance certificate by the Registrar of Political Parties Anne Gitau after they were approved for having met the requisite conditions to guarantee a party. “We confirmed that Kanu is compliant in terms of having offices, membership of not less than 24,000 people and they publicise their resources in accordance with the law,” said Ms Gitau. [jmutura@standardmedia.co.ke]  In terms of membership, the registrar said her office will support the party in registration of new members   “We shall work KANU like any other party to ensure their register is well harnessed and uploaded in our database so that it will be easier when it comes to certification as they prepare for the general elections,” said Gitau.  The party chairman said the certification would hasten the party’s plans in preparation for the elections.  “We are satisfied as a party with the work of the registrar of political parties. We had some concerns which had allayed and they have been addressed. KANUI is back to business in seeking the mandate from the people,” said Moi.  By Harold Odhiambo and Eric Abuga | 6 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 14 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 14 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 14 hours ago