President Uhuru Kenyatta addresses Jubilee supporters at State Lodge in Sagana, Nyeri County on February 23, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has officially kicked off political divorce proceedings with his Deputy, William Ruto, and has now endorsed ODM and Azimio leader Raila Odinga to succeed him.  And his no-holds barred criticism of his deputy, the President set the stage for a bruising battle for the heart and soul of the vote-rich region that has been seen to be leaning towards Dr Ruto.  Concerned by the rebellion against him in his erstwhile stronghold and a surge in Ruto’s popularity, Uhuru yesterday asked Mt Kenya voters to listen to him, walk with him and support his choice of successor come the August elections.  The President, who had invited 5,000 delegates at Sagana State Lodge, had promised to reveal why he fell out with Ruto and to demonstrate his determination to clip Ruto’s wings in the region. He enumerated various challenges he encountered with his deputy, including starting campaigns early and failure to serve the public.  Speaking in Kikuyu, the President, who was the only one who spoke at the meeting, accused Ruto of undermining his administration, saying he was hardly in the office.  According to him, in the past, those responsible for agriculture had overseen the collapse of various sub-sectors, including tea, coffee, rice and pyrethrum. However, Uhuru thanked Agriculture CS Peter Munya who he credited with reviving the agriculture sector and who he proposed should continue with the work even in future.    He claimed that some leaders in his government had been using their positions to divert public resources and then making huge cash donations to churches. He called out spiritual leaders who accepted such donations and then used the pulpit to mislead their flock.  “Church leaders should also not lie to our people. We are also peace lovers and we give our tithes and donations but don’t accept money stolen from public coffers and then you come to lie to us. It is you who is heading to Jahannam because the money was meant for Elgeyo Marakwet dams. You better take Sh100 that someone has sweated for than stolen Sh1 million,” Uhuru told the large gathering that far exceeded the invited guests.  Using phrases such as “silence is not cowardice”, Uhuru challenged those in his camp to boldly face the rebellious youth in the region and remind them where the country is coming from. He encouraged those seeking seats under the Jubilee Party ticket to endure short-term heckling from the ‘brainwashed’ youth and take time to tell them the truth.  “Our people are not fools; they will heckle you today but tomorrow they will realise the magnitude of what you told them,” Uhuru said.  At the same time, he reminded the gathering of how he intervened on behalf of the community. “At one time, I dug from my pockets and from friends to save our community when we were being chased from our lands; the BBI was all about Mt Kenya region and I was open to Ruto on every engagement between me and Raila,” he said.  The President lashed out at those who claimed the Jubilee Party was dead, saying he was busy completing development projects that he said should be credited to the party.  On the mushrooming of fringe parties in the region, Uhuru had one plea to all of them.  “A house divided is a house built on a quicksand but a house united shall live to fight another day,” told the gathering. “I have no problem with small parties but let us unite and form the next government. Let us not go alone since we will not reach our destination,” Uhuru said, alluding to the possibility of the parties coming together under a grand coalition.  There are about eight political parties in Mt Kenya region that have been trying to position themselves in the Uhuru succession politics. The President said they can field candidates but support a joint presidential contender.  Seeking to buttress his achievements in the region, he outlined what his government had done as he moved to refute claims that he had neglected the region. He enumerated various roads projects that he said would link the region to other parts of the country and improve businesses by easing movement of goods to the ports of Lamu and Mombasa.  And after two hours of cajoling his base Uhuru at last said in vernacular: “Support this man, a man seated on a stool is able to far compared to a lad on a tree. I chose to sit with this man... For now, support him. In future if my young mends his ways, we may support him.”  This was his clearest and most direct endorsement yet of Azimio’s presumptive presidential candidate, Raila Odinga.  The President’s mission to clip Ruto wings marked the first but most decisive step by the Jubilee Party to recapture support in the region. The party has a busy week ahead. It is scheduled to hold its National Delegates Conference (NDC) on Friday to ratify its coalition agreement with Azimio la Umoja and endorse Raila for presidency.  ODM will hold its NDC and later unveil Raila for presidency at the weekend.  By Kennedy Gachuhi and Titus Too | 1 hour ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago By Ng'ang'a Mbugua | 3 hours ago By Stephen Nzioka | 9 hours ago