Narok Senator Ledama Olekina (centre) with Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege during an Azimio la Umoja rally at Ugunja in Siaya County yesterday. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  Allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga have asked Deputy President William Ruto to respect President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The leaders, who pitched tent in Raila’s Siaya County turf said it was wrong for Ruto to disobey Uhuru despite the President having given him an opportunity to be his deputy for two terms.  Ruto, the leaders said, would not have been the second in command if it were not for Uhuru’s kind gesture.  Speaking a day after Ruto hit back following Uhuru’s statement that the DP had engaged in early campaigns at the expense of service delivery, the ODM and Jubilee Party leaders demanded that the DP should respect the President. Uhuru and Ruto have fallen out, with the president increasing seen to back Raila’s State House bid. On Tuesday, the president accused his deputy of spending much of his time on the campaign trail, saying no one can serve by speaking from the “top of a car”.  Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Senator James Orengo (Siaya), his Narok counterpart Ledama Olekina, Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe and MPs Junet Mohamed, Kanini Kega, Opiyo Wandayi, Otiende Amollo, Sam Atandi, Christine Ombaka, Sabina Chege, Gideon Ochanda and Elisha Odhiambo cautioned the UDA team against attacks on Uhuru.  “There can never be a head without a neck. We must have some order. You must respect the President or else we will start disrespecting you,” Ledama told Ruto.    The Senator said Kenyans were interested in a leader who is respectful and will not hesitate to send Ruto home by voting for Raila.  “If you listen to the manifesto of Raila, he is concerned about problems of the people yet Ruto spends too much time insulting the president. This country will not vote for a disrespectful leader,” added Ledama.  Governor Joho told Ruto that Raila and Uhuru were not his equals.   Joho said the Azimio team will take the war to the DP’s doorstep if he continues insulting Raila and the president.  “We are Raila diehards and will not hesitate to teach anyone who disrespects him and his friend a lesson. Remember anybody who is Raila’s friend is our friend and when you try to launch an attack on them, we will join the war without thinking twice. We are watching you and your allies. We will respond accordingly on behalf of Raila,” said Joho.  Senator Orengo said Ruto had no right to accuse the president of anything yet they formed the government together.  “You may have gone to school up to the university level, have a very good job but still remain unwise. How can one claim to be in a government that he does not support? That he only wants to be associated with the good things and shun the bad things of the Jubilee government,” noted Orengo.  On his part, Kega accused Ruto of failing to support the President in his quest to unite the country at a time when it was crucial.  He accused Ruto of using his influence as the DP to only work with people from the Rift Valley instead of bringing in all communities on board.  He said Ruto was given a chance to serve Kenyans but used his time in office to move around the country while making false promises.  “Remember, Uhuru is the reason you are in that position. When you were given a chance to unite this country through your seat, you forgot about uniting this country and focused only on your people. You left Uhuru with the burden of uniting this country by bringing together the rest of the communities,” noted Kega.  Chege (Murang’a Woman Rep) said the country is safe in the hands of Raila, castigating the DP as “a bitter man”.  She said Raila is the people’s project and not Uhuru’s as being peddled by Ruto’s allies.  Junet said they know Ruto from the time he was in ODM and would not have been politically visible enough without the help of the President.  “Do not bite the hands that fed you. Remember without the help of the president you would still be doing chicken business in Sugoi. So prepare to be in the opposition as this seat is now for Raila,” said Junet.  Wandayi said Ruto could lead the county stray if he wins. Orengo and Junet told aspirants in Nyanza to shun small parties and vie through ODM.  The ODM leaders drummed up support for a six-piece voting pattern in Nyanza saying the small parties were out to deny Raila numbers in Parliament and weaken his leadership.  By Jacinta Mutura | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Dominic Omondi | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago