President Uhuru Kenyatta. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has criticised politicians and government officials attacking state-owned development projects during their campaign rallies, saying ‘no work can be done standing on vehicles in meetings’.  Although without mentioning names, the Head of State was reacting to the recent remarks by the ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday at Luanda, Vihiga County.  Speaking at the launch of the Annual Universal Healthcare Conference in Mombasa, President Uhuru called on politicians to stop deceiving the electorate during their campaign meetings.  “We have made progress. Let us remain focused. Lying to people in meetings will not change anything. If there is anything you feel is not right, that’s why we are here. Just tell us where we can do better,” Uhuru said in Swahili. He added, “Stop the rhetoric from car sunroofs. You cannot talk when there is nothing that you have done. No work is done on top of vehicles. Work is done in hospitals, offices… “.  While addressing health issues, President Uhuru reassured Kenyans that despite making little strides, the country’s health sector was on the right path.  “Let us ensure we deliver the kind of healthcare that we would also seek to enjoy ourselves. Kenya is making low strides and even though we are not yet fully there, we are moving in the right direction,” he added.  “Some private hospitals refer some patients to some public hospitals because some of our public facilities are better equipped than the private ones,” he noted.   Uhuru also said that they (together with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho) would be officially opening another high-tech health facility in the Coast.  On Sunday,  Mudavadi publicly alleged that lawmakers from his political backyard were paid for attending President Uhuru Kenyatta’s meeting at State House.  He also claimed that President Uhuru’s regime had failed to take state development projects to the Western region yet he was asking Western voters to vote for ODM leader’s Azimio la Umoja.  "Don’t be duped, let him (President Uhuru) tell my people what development project he has brought in Western Kenya in the last 10 years and he is now asking us to vote for Azimio,”.  On the contrary, leaders from Western Kenya who met the president on January 25, commended him for bringing development projects to their backyards.  In return, Uhuru assured them of the government's commitment to ensure all ongoing development projects in the populous region are completed as scheduled.  By Mireri Junior | 4 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 4 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago