Jubilee and ODM officials in Nakuru County are planning joint campaigns ahead of the nomination of candidates.  The two parties are also in talks on how they will field candidates and minimise competition between themselves while locking out rivals.  Speaking during a meeting in Nakuru, Jubilee branch chairperson James Karimi said the talks are aimed at ensuring constituent parties of the Azimio la Umoja coalition recapture their seats in August.  “We are in talks to ensure that we deliver all the seats in August. We are looking at the political dynamics on the ground. Where ODM is strong, Jubilee will not field a candidate and vice versa,” said Karimi.  Nakuru has been Jubilee’s political bedrock since 2013 but has now lost most of its elected members to UDA. ODM is the minority party at the County Assembly but did not win any parliamentary seats.  “In consultations with the top party leadership, we shall hold joint campaigns not only to ensure we capture most seats but also to keep our people united regardless of the poll results,” he said.  ODM Nakuru branch chairperson George Omwembe said the unity with Jubilee will give residents the right leaders.  “We shall do zoning in the next few months and ensure we have no rivalry between Jubilee and ODM members. We shall conduct free and fair nominations to ensure we have the strongest candidate on the ballot,” said Omwembe.  Jubilee Regional Director Peter Cheruiyot said the two parties will support their candidates fully.  “We promise full support for all candidates who will be vying for elective seats under Azimio La Umoja umbrella,” said Cheruiyot.  He vouched for peaceful campaigns and urged the residents to elect people of integrity.  “We don’t want to end up with the wrong leaders just because of their popularity. It is a call for every voter to interrogate the choices they will make at the ballot. Integrity must be a priority,” he said.  kgachuhi@standardmedia.co.ke       By Ndungu Gachane | 4 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago