Governor Ali Roba has endorsed Mandera county assembly Speaker Mohamed Adan Khalif to succeed him. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Ali Roba has announced that the party will enter into a pact with Jubilee to back ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  Speaking in Nairobi yesterday, the governor said UDM will enter into an arrangement with Jubilee before joining Azimio la Umoja Movement.  Raila is set to run for the presidency under Azimio.  "UDM is working with President Uhuru's rebranded Jubilee and will fully back Raila's candidature,” said Roba. "We have made a candid decision and picked Raila as a presidential candidate and we will mobilise voters for him in Mandera and neighbouring counties,” he added.  Roba who is eyeing Mandera Senate seat has endorsed Mandera county assembly Speaker Mohamed Adan Khalif to succeed him.  His decision has set the stage for the battle to succeed him which has also attracted former East Africa Community Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed, former Education CAS Hassan Noor Hassan, Mombasa Businessman Feisal Abdirahman and Senator Eng Mohamed Mohamud.  A section of Gurreh elders endorsed Khalif for the gubernatorial seat.  Noor and Mahmoud defied the elders’ verdict and are likely to present themselves for August polls.  In the run-up to 2017 polls, the former CAS was the elders' preferred candidate for governor but Roba successfully defied the decision to win a second term.  Khalif announced that he will vie on UDM ticket.  Raila has received backing from key political players from North Eastern.  In Wajir, Eldas MP Adan Keynan, Senator Ali Abdulahi and Woman Rep Fatuma Gedi are rooting for Azimio la Umoja as well as Governor Ahmed Muktar.  In Garissa, Governor Ali Korane is supporting Raila while his political rival and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale is Deputy President Willaim Ruto's UDA camp.  In Isiolo, Woman Rep Rehema Jaldessa decamped from UDA to Azimio.  Former Isiolo Governor Doyo Godana is rooting for Azimio as well as the incumbent Mohamed Kuti who is seeking a second term.  By Stephanie Wangari | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Robert Abong'o | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago