Loreen Naswa who was allegedly beaten to death by her employer's sons for stealing Sh 6000.  A family in Trans Nzoia County is crying for justice over the death of their daughter, allegedly killed by a neighbour who accused her of stealing Sh6,000.  Loreen Naswa Fwamba, 23 and mother of a year-old boy, was reportedly beaten to death by members of a family where she worked as a house help in Machungwa village.  The neighbour's home is barely 50 metres away from Naswa's parents' house where she had worked for the past five years.   According to the deceased's father Patrick Wafula, his daughter had been summoned by her employer to help her weed a vegetable garden before she met her death.  It is alleged that Naswa was bartered to force her to confess to stealing the money.  Her brother Boniface Wanjala said he was confronted by his sister's attackers while herding family cows at a field near their home.  Wanjala claimed, they frog-marched him to his father's house, where they ransacked the house in search of the missing money.  "The two confronted me at a grazing field and forced me to lead them to our house where they searched for the money and afterwards frog marched me to their home," Wanjala told The Standard.  Wanjala said they demanded he and his sister produce the money.  "They locked us inside the house, demanding that we produce the missing money. They later ordered me out before they continued to attack my sister using a wooden bar and a whip," said Wanjala.  He said despite pleas from the sister, they continued to beat her.  "I tried to plead with them to spare my sister's life by offering a cow to compensate the lost money, but they refused," a tearful Wanjala narrated.  He said after the beating, they dragged her sister outside as he helplessly watched.  Patrick Wafula, Loreen Naswa's father. [Obare Osinde, Standard]  The father said when he had of his daughter’s predicament rushed to the neighbour's home and found his daughter lying motionless on the ground.  “They asked me to take her away, but I declined," Wafula said.  He said two officers from Bikeke police post arrived at the home and directed the attackers to take Naswa to hospital.  "The officers briefly talked with my neighbour inside her house and then instructed that the two men rush my daughter to the hospital before they left on a motorcycle," he said.  He said the woman and one of her sons used a motorcycle to ferry Naswa to Bikeke health centre, where she was pronounced dead on arrival.  The father of 10, wondered why his daughter was so-treated despite the years she had served her.  "She should have called me so that we sort out the issue if indeed my daughter had stolen her money, " Wafula said.  He said the neighbour had sent emissaries to apologise and request to compensate for the death.  "After my daughter was pronounced dead, my neighbour dispatched five people to me and told me that she is ready to compensate for the death of my daughter, but I turned them away," he said.  Wafula said his family is only interested in justice for the death of his daughter.  "As a family, we want justice to prevail. We don't need money. Let the law take its course," he said.  He added, "I am aware that some officers have been compromised to protect my daughter's killers and I asked the government to intervene.”  Trans Nzoia County Commander Jacinta Wesonga said the matter had been reported and no stone will remain unturned on the matter.  "It is unfortunate that life has been lost. We have launched an investigation and let me assure the family that no stone will remain unturned. What we want is evidence," said Wesonga.  By Omelo Juliet | 1 day ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago By Nathan Ochunge | 3 days ago