NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia and Commissioner Philip Okundi during a past media briefing. [Jenipher Wachie, Standard]  The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) has made public major threats that could imperil the August 9 elections. Additionally, it has cautioned politicians against propagating divisive politics through word or deed.  The commission has listed 23 counties as possible hotspots during the elections campaign. That, needless to say, is work for the Police Service. Relevant institutions within the service should swing into action immediately.    NCIC has also announced it is investigating at least 49 individuals accused of breaching peace and integration codes. Among the key factors that could cause disharmony according to NCIC is the propensity for inflammatory attacks and hate speech by prominent politicians as they crisscross the country. Others include ethnic balkanisation and zoning and misuse of social media platforms.  Indeed, these are not new since they have been in the public purview for months now. Kenyans have been treated to numerous incidents of hate speech and ad hominem by politicians who, it would seem, have nothing new to offer Kenyans. At every political rally so far, speakers have managed to demonstrate zero grasp of issues dear to the voter, and what is needed to get this country out of the economic morass it finds itself in. Instead, when the leaders take the microphone, it is to score points off each other in a manner that debases both parties.  Aspiring leaders must guard against whipping up public emotions and lighting fires through careless utterances. Allegations of corruption, theft and assassination attempts have sensationally been made in public, which is unacceptable. These are serious matters of national concern that should, ideally, be reported to the police, not in public rallies.  Some leaders are notorious for addressing rallies in their mother tongues to malign and make false claims against others. We must reject such leaders. The police and NCIC have their work cut out for them. We need more action, not just threats.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 4 days ago