Nyanza region registrar officer George Olela (left) displays some of the uncollected identity cards at the registration center in Kisumu. [File, Standard]  Two senators allied to Deputy President William Ruto have alleged a scheme by the government to delay the issuance of IDs to residents of United Democratic Alliance (UDA) perceived strongholds thereby denying them an opportunity to register as voters ahead of the August elections.  Nandi's Samson Cherargei and his Murang’a counterpart Irungu Kanga’ata claimed the delay was part of an alleged attempt by the Ministry of Interior to scuttle Ruto's presidential aspiration claiming issuance of IDs in Central Kenya and Rift Valley regions has been too slow.  The two who spoke in Kapsabet on Sunday urged Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Mating'i and his Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho to speed up the process and allow residents can register as voters.  "It is taking too long for residents of these areas to acquire IDs or replace lost ones," said Cherargei.  "This is being done out of malice. There is a plot to deny residents of some parts of the country the right to vote by withholding IDs or delaying their issuance. Even delivering IDs at the offices of the chiefs for applicants to collect them has been a problem," Cherargei said.  He added: "And it is worth noting that this is only happening in regions where the DP has huge support, including in Central and Rift Valley. This is the clearest indication yet that some government officials are already trying to interfere with the presidential elections."  "We want as many people as possible to come out and register as voters. We need a hundred per cent turnout to give Ruto victory in the first round. Intentions by the "deep state" cannot deter our aspirations and determination to form the next government. We want to revive our economy and create employment for the youth."  Irungu claimed Mt Kenya region is solidly behind the DP and his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta remain on course.  "We will not be cowed by intimidation. They are frustrating some of us because we are campaigning for Ruto. We have resolved to soldier on despite threats and even arrests," said Irungu.  The legislators termed Rift Valley and Central regions UDA zones and urged the electorates to only vote for those vying on the party's ticket.  "Don't vote for any other party. The party is UDA which has a national outlook and its agenda is revival of the economy," said Cherargei.  By Daniel Chege | 5 hours ago By Michael Saitoti | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony and James Munyeki | 14 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 22 hours ago