Private investigator Jane Mugo at a Milimani court on Wednesday, February 3, 2021, when she appeared for a mention of a case she`s charged with threatening to shoot a person. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Drama happened at Milimani Courts, Nairobi, when private detective Jane Mugo, who is charged with threatening to shoot a businessman, burst into tears claiming there were kidnappers in the court who were determined to kill her.  She said she was kidnapped on November 24, 2021, by people who are still at large.  Mugo told Chief Magistrate Susan Shitubi that the media was being used to kill her   She said one of her kidnappers was in court and was being used by a journalist to take her pictures photos and have her killed.  "I was kidnapped and tortured by kidnappers who want me killed like Willy Kimani but I will fight for justice,” she told the court.  She said she was suffering because she investigated someone on corruption.  "I have been in pain for the last three years since I was charged. Police are being used and media to kill me," she added.  She said the kidnappers are police officers.  Mugo was in court today for a mention of her case where she pleaded afresh to charges of threatening to kill a businessman.  This is after the prosecution amended the charge sheet.  She is accused of threatening to kill Deepa Shah and unlawfully making use of a firearm.  "I have been in pain for the last three years since I was charged,” Mugo told the court.”  She told the court that during the kidnapping, her car was blocked by armed men driving in two vehicles at the Ainabkoi- Kapsabet junction on the Eldoret-Nakuru highway.  She said the men clubbed her and also kidnapped her river and another passenger.  Mugo said the attackers drove off in her car and left her by the roadside where she was later rescued by passers-by.  She has also been quoted linking the attack to a murder case she was investigating.  The case in question, Mugo said, involves a Busia-based police officer.  By Josphat Thiong’o | 4 hours ago By Stephanie Wangari | 18 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago