Kicked out of Jubilee: Deputy President William Ruto. [George Njunge, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has officially been kicked out of Jubilee during the National Delegates Convention held today at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC).  The NDC, which was presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta, saw the party unveil new national officials who will each serve five-year terms.  Uhuru was unanimously endorsed to continue as party leader, effectively putting him at the helm of Jubilee and maintaining his stay in national politics past his retirement as President in August.   In the list of new officials, Ruto’s Deputy Party Leader’s post has been split into four.  The new deputy party leaders are Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi (Strategy), Taveta MP Naomi Shabaan (Outreach), former Kajiado Senator Peter Mositet (Programmes) and former Buuri MP Kinoti Gatobu (Operations).  The new Secretary-General is Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni who replaces Raphael Tuju who stepped down after consultations with the President.  President Uhuru Kenyatta when he arrived at KICC to officiate the Jubilee Party NDC on February 26, 2022. [Standard]  However, Uhuru urged ODM leader Raila Odinga to consider Tuju for a post in government should he win the August 9 polls under the Azimio la Umoja Coalition movement.  Nelson Dzuya and David Murathe retained their posts of National and Deputy National Chairperson respectively.  The party also rewarded Jubilee loyalists Kieni MP Kanini Kega (National Director Elections) Aldas MP Adan Keynan (Parliamentary Secretary) and Cherengany MP Joshua Kutuny (Deputy Secretary-General).  During the NDC, Jubilee officially resolved to kick out all party rebels allied to Ruto’s UDA Party.  “All members of the Jubilee Party that have openly promoted the policies and or ideologies of other political parties be deemed to have ceased to be members of the Jubilee Party and be removed from the party’s register,” the party resolved.  Earlier, the ODM National Delegates Convention formally approved Raila's presidential candidature in the August 9 General Election.  The party delegates endorsed Raila as the sole presidential candidate after deputy party leaders Governor Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) withdrew their candidatures during the National Governing Council meeting on Friday.  The Orange party at the same time resolved to defer grassroots and party officials' elections till 2023.  ODM and Jubilee are holding their NDCs this Saturday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) and the Kasarani Gymnasium respectively where they are set to endorse Raila as the Azimio la Umoja presidential flagbearer.  By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By Dennis Tarus | 3 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 3 hours ago