OKA principal and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi during a rally at Pan paper grounds in Lugari, Kakamega county on Feb 12, 2022. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  The One Kenya Alliance has called on Kenyans to vote out any presidential aspirant with a legacy of looting public resources in the August 9 polls.  The leaders, Gideon Moi (Kanu), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Martha Karua (Narc Kenya) and UDP’s Cyrus Jirongo said theft was largely to blame for the hard economic times that Kenyans were going through.  “Vote out the people who have sunk the nation’s economy to teach them a lasting lesson,” said Gideon, characterising the August 9 polls as a destiny changing venture for the nation.   Without mentioning names, the Baringo senator said some politicians who were seeking country’s top seats could not be trusted with state resources.  “But they will come to you with money to bribe their ways into elective seats. You can eat the money but remember to vote them out so that we get fresh blood that will steer the nation to glory,” he said yesterday at Likuyani Constituency, Kakamega, where the OKA team visited to popularise the alliance and campaign for Jirongo to become Kakamega governor.  Gideon promised free secondary education should OKA form the next government.  Gideon and Kalonzo at the same time said the alliance was in discussions with like-minded partners with a view of working together for a better nation.  Kalonzo brushed off the defection of two of OKA’s former principals, Moses Wetang’ula of Ford-Kenya and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, who joined William Ruto to form Kenya Kwanza Alliance, saying it was a miscalculation.  “We had elaborate plans to revive the sinking economy together with our brothers Mudavadi and Wetang’ula but they bolted out to join a dubious team,” he said.  “We wish them well but will march on with our dream of going for the presidency so that we can push for increased funds to counties and improvement of infrastructure,” he said.  Karua called on the Mulembe nation to gauge leaders’ integrity before electing them.  She echoed Gideon’s sentiments of giving a lasting lesson at the ballot to corrupt leaders.  “Why should you lynch a chicken thief and celebrate the mega thieves who loot and come to buy your vote with the loot they obtain from your taxes?” she posed. “If you have such bitterness with a chicken thief, then build greater hate for the mega thieves and vote them out in August.”  She regretted that hospitals and schools had no facilities because of looting in government.  Jirongo said the remaining OKA leaders were intact and nothing would split them.  “We were many in the OKA house but some left. I won’t speak for the ones who left (Musalia and Wetang’ula) because the team they left behind has reputable leaders who have admiration across the nation,” he said.  He went on: “Our greatest enemies are the people who serve in political office and have impoverished the nation through graft.”  The alliance said it was open to working with other political formations in a structured manner but will be careful about who joins them. Majority of the OKA leaders ruled out working with Kenya Kwanza.  Jirongo wants to replace outgoing governor Wycliffe Oparanya who is serving his second term.   The One Kenya Alliance team witnessed tens of MCAs from other parties defect to join Jirongo’s UDP.  By Alexander Chagema | 2 hours ago By Bernard Lusigi | 1 day ago By Obare Osinde | 1 day ago By Jackline Inyanji | 2 days ago