From left: Mahmoud Noor, Executive Director of the Pwani Innovation Week, ICT Chief Administrative Secretary Nadia Ahmed and Communications Authority Director-General Ezra Chiloba during a breakfast meeting in Nairobi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Mombasa will host the second edition of the Pwani Innovation Week (PIW) between March 28 and 31.  The first one was held between December 3 and 6, 2019, followed by the Blue Hackathon on December 8 and 9.  The Innovation Week is a joint initiative by the SwahiliPot Hub Foundation and its partners to foster innovation and technology in Kenya’s coastal counties. It aims to encourage innovators, policymakers, corporations, funders, researchers and other stakeholders to embrace new ideas and trends.  This year’s theme is ‘Leveraging on Covid-19’s opportunities to create a better future.’    It will focus on innovative ways of working that have evolved as a result of the pandemic and its catastrophic impacts.  Speaking yesterday in Nairobi during media and sponsors breakfast engagement, Mahmoud Noor, the Swahilipot Hub founder, said the innovation week aims to bring together innovators within the coastal counties to showcase what they have.  ‘‘Most of the time we have been hearing negative stories from the Coast but this time, we need to hear positive stories from innovators. The innovation week will present that platform. We will also connect innovators with investors and government,’’ said Noor.  He added: ‘‘It will also act as an infiltration session since we shall have bootcamps and master classes together with hackathons to build that collaborative network because once you provide linkages, most innovators will unlock their potential.’’   They have partnered with the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mombasa Chapter, Mombasa County, Safaricom, Cisco, National Museums of Kenya, Huawei, Cellulant, the Ministry of ICT, the British High Commission among others.  East African Community PS Kevit Desai said Artificial Intelligence, machine learning, robotics among others would revolutionise life and Swahilipot Hub stands to play a big role in the leap into a future shaped by technology.  ‘’Platforms like the Pwani Innovation Week will not just disrupt our thinking but also shape young people’s future for be better,’’ he said.  ICT CAS Nadia Abdala said the platform will offer an opportunity to discuss how innovations can be harnessed to solve some of the country’s problems like unemployment among the youth.  ‘‘It will be an environment where we want to promote tech and innovation,’’ she said.  Communications Authority Director-General Ezra Chiloba said: ‘‘This is the time we need to start looking at solutions that target the bottom of the bottom within our social economic set-up. Pwani Innovation Week provides us an opportunity to add value to these conversations.”  By Renson Mnyamwezi | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago By Hassan Barisa | 1 day ago By Patrick Beja | 2 days ago