Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho speaking at a past event [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has agreed to grant his first wife a divorce she sought in January 2022.  The Governor decided to amicably end the relationship with his Italian wife of 12 years.  Mr Joho signed a consent with Madina Giovanni Fazzini to end their marriage after nine years of separation.  The Governor who appeared before Mombasa Chief Kadhis court did not object to his ex-wife’s call for a divorce. Fazzini had filed for a divorce before Mombasa Chief Kadhis Court. The Kadhi issued a divorce certificate on February 7.     She filed the case on January 26 on grounds that the marriage had broken down and cannot be revived.  “I am clear and unequivocal that our marriage has broken down irretrievably with no chance of revival given we have both moved on over the years,” said Fazzini in her affidavit filed in court.  The two got married on February 11, 2011 and had two children aged nine and eight years.  Fazzini said that Joho moved out of the matrimonial home in 2013 leaving her with their two children.  “Since the respondent (Joho) moved out of our matrimonial home in June 2013, the substance of our marriage has dissipated and has no basis to be sustained from a legal and social standpoint,” said Fazzini.  She said they lived with Joho as husband and wife from the onset of their marriage until January 2013 when they separated living quarters.  “I lived in the matrimonial home until 2020. Since then I have been living on my own,” said Fazzini.  She said there was no hope or possibility of reconciliation or compromise of whatsoever nature or kind between herself and Joho.  In her affidavit, Fazzini said she had not been an accessory to or connived or condoned Joho actions or colluded with him in bringing the instant proceedings.  “At all material times relevant to this suit, the petitioner (Fazzini) and respondent (Joho) were and are still husband and wife having married under Islamic law on February 11, 2011,” read her affidavit.  She also attached a marriage certificate and birth certificates of the two children she bore with Joho.  Fazzini, 30 is born of an Italian father and Somali mother.  By James Munyeki | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Standard Team | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago