OKA principals Cyrus Jirongo (UDP), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Gideon Moi (Kanu) at SKM Command Center in Karen, Nairobi. February 25, 2022. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  A meeting by One Kenya Alliance (OKA) scheduled for Monday, February 28, 2022, has been postponed.  In a statement to newsrooms, OKA spokesperson Fredrick Okango said the meeting that was to showcase the unveiling of OKA Coalition, as well as the signing of an agreement, was rescheduled to a later date, this week, to accommodate new partners.  Okango noted that the coalition that brings together principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Sen Gideon Moi (Kanu), Martha Karua (NARC) and Cyrus Jirongo (UDP) seeks to offer inclusive leadership and decided to postpone the meeting after receiving requests from other political formations.   “These ideals continue to attract political formations with which we share the vision of a united nation anchored on the rule of law and equitable development. We would to reassure the public and our supporters that we remain committed to our cause for a just, inclusive and prosperous nation,” read the statement in part.  The postponement comes hours after Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria met and expressed willingness to work with OKA , only if they do not join forces with Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja Coalition.  “Whereas we share many ideals between Chama Cha Kazi and OKA, we agreed to work together as long as OKA is not joining the Azimio Coalition which is incompatible with myself and the Chama Cha Kazi Party,” said Kuria in a statement after the meeting.  A spanner in the works for the OKA principals who were among guests during Jubilee Party and ODM National Delegates Conventions at the KICC and Kasarani, respectively, where they expressed support for a framework to form the Azimio-One Kenya Alliance with the two parties.  Making the case for Azimio-One Kenya Alliance in a statement, Musyoka said it shall be anchored on three equal pillars.  “As OKA, we firmly believe in an open, honest, and structured dialogue whose basis is the promotion of national unity; upholding and respecting the dignity of all Kenyans; ending the culture of corruption and impunity, and restoring the decency of living within our borders,” stated Kalonzo.  He went on to affirm that OKA will field its presidential candidate. “There is no one swallowing (sic) OKA, we stress on equality of partnership.”  By Special Correspondent | 35 minutes ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 35 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 35 minutes ago By Denis Kabaara | 35 minutes ago