Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, Rev Mathews Mwalwa and Isaac Kalua during Green Thinking Action Party  National Delegates Conference at the Bomas of Kenya. [Jenipher Wachie, Standard]  Environmentalist Dr Isaac Kalua has urged youths to shun divisive politics.  Addressing the Green Thinking Action Party (GTAP) National Delegates Conference at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi on Tuesday, Kalua said youths are key to overcoming historical challenges that have faced the country.  "We must take on the daunting task of rebuilding a Kenya that reflects who we truly are and overcoming history and decades of tribal tensions and strained environmental conditions will be no easy feat," Kalua said.   The GTAP leader further suggested that a new way of thinking was necessary to sanitise Kenya's politics.  He said the party's manifesto is geared towards "restoring the integrity of service delivery to the citizens of our people."  "Which is why as a party, we have decided to run the 2022 elections differently by divesting energies from the presidential race and focusing our attention, instead, to the other offices this time round," he said.  Kalua noted that GTAP is built on kindness, empowerment of households and passionate environment conservation.  Before a charged Baraza Hall audience, the GTAP leader announced that he will not vie for any elective seat, instead, he will be "supervising" and mentoring the younger generation.  He called on independent candidates to join the party.  Makueni Senator Mutual Kilonzo Jr lauded the party for advocating for clean politics and environmental conservation.  "Food prices are high because we have refused to think, act and plant green. We should go towards this direction of thinking green," Kilonzo Jr said.  He urged the youths to play a significant role in governance and cautioned them against being lured by handouts.  "You have the critical mass, the voice and education to determine who becomes the next president," Kalua said.  Presidential aspirant Reuben Kigame said time was ripe for a new political voice.  "We must start fresh. We must start anew," he said.  By Ndungu Gachane | 53 minutes ago By Barrack Muluka | 2 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 6 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 7 hours ago