Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and blogger Pauline Njoroge were involved in an online altercation after State House youth meeting. [Courtesy]  Digital media strategist Pauline Njoroge has responded to unsavoury remarks made by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi about her private life, saying no intimidation will push her out of politics.  Sudi’s unprintable remarks on Ms Njoroge followed Friday's  State House meeting between a section of the youth and President Uhuru Kenyatta reportedly organised by Ms Njoroge.  In a phone interview with The Standard this morning, Njoroge said that she, together with like-minded young Kenyans will continue having such meetings adding that they had a right to associate (politically) and express themselves.  “We will continue holding our meetings and rallies as usual. We have a right to associate and express ourselves. Let them know that will not bow to any form of intimidation,” Njoroge told The Standard.  “Let everyone learn to respect women in politics because they are rightfully in this space. We earned our positions rightfully. You can call us all the names you want but that will not stop us from engaging in politics”.  Sudi took to his Facebook page this morning and in a minute-long video made unprintable utterances against Njoroge, claiming that she had mobilised the youth to attend the State House meeting.  “Pauline Njoroge, I have seen you taking the youth to StateHouse, which is not wrong because they are going to collect Covid-19 funds,” Sudi alleged in a snippet of the video.  An hour later Njoroge took to her Facebook to respond to Sudi and other politicians who criticised the meeting, asking them to brace themselves for even more of such parleys.  “Looks like the Statehouse youth meeting caused serious jitters in some quarters. Na bado! We just got started and insults don’t move us. When they go low we go high," she posted on her verified Facebook page at 10 am.  Last Friday, President Uhuru met more than 3,000 young people from all counties and urged them to support ODM leader Raila Odinga in the upcoming August elections.  “It was a very fruitful meeting, the president urged us to support Odinga as the best-suited candidate to succeed him,” a youth leader who attended the meeting told Capital FM.  Present during the meeting was Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, Jubilee party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, Kieni MP Kanini Kega, Kirinyanga Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici, nominated Senator Isaac Ngugi among others.  Kenyans on social media shared mixed reactions after Sudi shared the video uttering unprintable allegations against the blogger, Pauline Njoroge.  “As far as I know, the president will only plan meetings in the statehouse, he can't go to the grassroots.  It is hostile for him, the only place he can have a political rally comfortably is Nyanza regions, but other places No, even his home yard,” Robert Kipng’etich commented.  Another added, “Boss, leave Pauline alone. She has two degrees when you only have a birth certificate and KCSE certificate from Highway High School of River Rd studies,”.  By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 8 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 9 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 9 hours ago