In the first voter registration exercise, IEBC registered a paltry 1,519,294 new voters. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  The second phase of voter registration that began on January 17 came to a close last Sunday.  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had targeted to register at least 4.5 million new voters but at the end of two weeks, it had only managed to register 548,188.  In the first voter registration exercise between October and November 2021, IEBCs target was six million new voters, but it ended up registering a paltry 1,519,294.  No amount of pleading from IEBC, aspiring leaders and those already in power has moved people to register in large numbers. More worrying is the fact that the biggest voting demographic in the country, which is the youth, appears inured to entreaties to register and are actually averse to doing so.  No doubt, disillusionment and lost hope are at the centre of voter apathy. There is no denying that Kenyans are faced with a myriad challenges ranging from a high cost of living, joblessness, a dysfunctional health sector and an education system that does not favour the less financially endowed, yet the government and elected leaders have done little, if anything, to alleviate their suffering. Indeed, when it comes to raising punitive taxes, Parliament has hardly raised its voice to object.  Unemployment levels among educated youth are spiraling out of control. Under the circumstances, youth wearied by desperation; youth who have lost hope in life, need more that entreaties to register as voters.  Over the years, Kenyans have had the misfortune of putting up with elected leaders who promptly abscond after elections, only to turn up five years later. To address the issue of voter apathy, there must be a paradigm shift in the governments’ approach to matters of governance.  Empty rhetoric, which is the hallmark of Kenyan leadership, does not inspire trust in the people. It is important to find out whether these are the reasons that have made some Kenyans to shun the voter the registration centres.  Let IEBC dig out the truth.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 4 days ago