UPIA Party leader Ukur Yatani during the United Party of Independent Alliance meeting at the party offices in Kileleshwa on February 23, 2022 [David Gichuru, Standard]  Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has said northern Kenya is firmly behind ODM leader Raila Odinga.  Mr Yatani, who spoke when he met aspirants from his United Party of Independent Alliance (UPIA) in Nairobi on Wednesday, claimed that his party had diluted Deputy President William Ruto’s influence in the region that boasts of more than 800,000 votes.  The UPIA leader expressed confidence that Raila would lead the next government.  “Raila does not need to come to the region in person. We have held the ground tightly for him and we have chased others away,” Yatani said. In recent weeks, the ODM leader has won new allies from the northern region with the help of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has instigated defections among former allies of Ruto. One such defector is Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa, who was once a fierce critic of Raila.  The president has met leaders from the region several times, with the latest one being a delegation from Marsabit on Tuesday.  The United Democratic Movement, associated with Mandera Governor Ali Roba, has also thrown its weight behind Raila’s Azimio la Umoja movement.    Yatani and UPIA officials reiterated their support for Azimio.  The party organising secretary, Joseph Wanguchu, said they would not conduct joint nominations under Azimio.  “We will be friendly but there will be no negotiations. Let us meet on the ballot,” Mr Wanguchu said.  “ODM is a close friend of UPIA and we will walk this journey together,” said Loima MP Jeremiah Lomorukai (ODM).  The move threatens to complicate matters for Azimio, which is working to prevent sibling rivalry in the August 9 polls. Democratic Action Party-Kenya leadership has also declared that they will not conduct joint nominations under Azimio.  Yatani said UPIA intends to spread its tentacles across the country by fielding aspirants for various elective seats.  “UPIA is the party for pastoralists. We had been loitering in Ruto’s camp but we are now firmly in Azimio,” Turkana East MP Mohamed Lokiru said.  UPIA intends to elect a substantive party leader during its National Delegates Conference, scheduled to take place in a fortnight. Yatani is barred from active politics owing to his job as Treasury Cabinet Secretary.  By Brian Otieno | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o and James Wanzala | 4 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 7 hours ago By James Wanzala | 9 hours ago