High voltage transmission powerline near Imara Daima Railway Station that fell causing a power outage on January 11, 2022 [David Gichuru, Standard]  Kenya Power has in the last six months lost an estimated Sh12 million due to transformer vandalism in western Kenya.  The company says it loses about Sh600,000 for every transformer vandalised.  Western regional manager Sarah Wepukhulu said since June last year, the firm has lost 20 transformers.  Speaking in Kisumu, Ms Wepukhulu said apart from losing the transfers, the company incurs other loses as a result of not providing power due to vandalism.   “We have hospitals that have patients on oxygen. The cost of losing a transformer is more than we can quantify on face value,” she said.  The official said homes and businesses continue to suffer losses linked to vandalism.  “When you put together what the customer has lost and what we lose whenever a transformer is destroyed, it is huge. Vandalism continues to thrive since the vandals go for the transformer oil which they use to fry chips. We want to encourage Kenyans to avoid the oil because it is not edible,” she added. Wepukhulu said those vandalising transformers also go for the copper which seems to enjoy a huge market.  She warned Kenyans against buying the oil and the copper, terming it economic sabotage that should avoided.  Wepukhulu said transformer vandalism is common in Muhoroni, Nyakach, Chemelil, Awasi and in Siaya town. “There are people targeting transformers in those areas since they make good sales. Their days are numbered since we are working with a multi-agency team to end the practice. Our customer have been inconvenienced for long,” she added.  The Kenya Power official said western region residents owe the company millions of shillings, with Kisumu County leading at Sh500 million. Majority of those owing the firm are private customers.  She said small-medium enterprise consumers and homes have not been paying on time while Corporate consumers were up to date with payment.     By Caroline Chebet | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Antony Gitonga & Kennedy Gachuhi | 7 hours ago