Kenya Kwanza brigade led by Deputy President William Ruto has pledged to revive the economy if they win in the August 9 General Election.  Addressing a rally at Kiminini township, in Trans Nzoia county, yesterday, Dr Ruto said Kenya Kwanza has solutions to the ailing economy.  He noted that the current economic model where money trickles down has failed to work and the bottom-up economic model is most favorable for the country.   "The trickle-down economic model we are using has failed the country. Our bottom-up economic agenda is the best model to ensure the poor are incorporated in the nation-building," he said.  Dr Ruto said Azimio la Umoja One Kenya was keen on constitutional changes to pave way for the creation of positions and power-sharing and urged Kenyans to reject their schemes.  "Fixing the economy is our first priority unlike our competitors whose main agenda is to bring constitutional changes to create positions for certain individuals," he said.  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi accused their competitors of only being interested in power-sharing.  The DP was also accompanied by Trans-Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba, MPs Ferdinand Wanyonyi, Dr Chris Wamalwa, Dr Robert Pokuse, Mwambu Mabonga and Catherine Wambilianga.  Dr Ruto claimed that individuals who sit in hotels and decide the country's political destiny are selfish and lack transformative agenda for the country.  "Who gave these people the mandate to sit in hotels and decide who will be the next president. These people are only interested in power-sharing since they lack transformative agenda for the country," he said.  He claimed that the Azimio team has nothing to offer Kenyans and is only interested in  ascending to power.  Ruto claimed that Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has nothing to show for the years in government saying that his scorecard as deputy president is visible citing road infrastructure, electricity connectivity, and the modernization of rail transport.  "My competitor served as prime minister and should table his track record because mine is visible and Kenyans should be allowed to interrogate who is the best leader to be their president," he said.  Mr Wetang'ula and Mr Mudavadi urged Kenyans to trust Kenya Kwanza and support its presidential candidate Ruto.  The ANC leader said that Kenya Kwanza has the best economic model that will revive the economy.  Mudavadi described Ruto as 'God fearing' and urged Kenyans to support his presidential bid.  "Our captain is a God-fearing man and he understands the needs of an ordinary Kenyan.Our team has no room for political conmanship and it is a solution to what is ailing the country," he said.  Earlier, the Kenya Kwanza team attended service at St Peters Clever Catholic church Kiminini, where Ruto donated Sh500,000 towards the purchase of a car for the local parish priest.  Bishop Maurice Crowley asked politicians to tell the truth and be honest in their actions.  "Politicians tell people the truth and keep the truth through actions. Don't tell lies because it would haunt you in the future," he said.  The Bishop warned leaders against fanning hatred and divisive politics.  "As leaders, you must demonstrate the best example of truth, preach and teach one another love. Put the country's interest ahead of your political ambitions," he said.  He challenged politicians to own up to their past mistakes.  Bishop Crowley said Kenya will only develop when there is unity and peace.  "Mistakes are made by everybody and there is a need to own up to them as the children of God. We will make God happy when we love one another and do good deeds," he told the leaders.  By Brian Kisanji | 1 hour ago By Benard Lusigi | 3 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 3 hours ago By Michelle Muchelule | 1 day ago