ODM leader Mr Raila Odinga yesterday took his campaigns to Kilifi, where he criticised Governor Mr Amason Kingi for alleged betrayal.  Mr Odinga told voters to reject Mr Kingi, his Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) and Kenya Kwanza formation, saying they have nothing to offer Coast residents.  “I grew Kingi’s political career from Gongoni in Magarini, where I pleaded with voters to elect him MP and then appointed him to Cabinet. I took him round Kilifi County in a campaign that saw him elected governor, only to decamp from ODM and later Azimio la Umoja,” said Mr Odinga.  He added: “Kingi is a thankless politician who rewarded me with donkey kicks. He has gone to our opponents after getting all the support from me.”  Mr Odinga spoke at rallies in Msabaha in Malindi, Kiwandani in Kilifi North and Kidutani in Kilifi South Constituencies. He claimed Mr Kingi was given a raw deal in Deputy President Dr William Ruto-led Kenya Kwanza power sharing pact, where he was promised Senate Speaker seat if he delivered half of the Coast vote.    ANC leader Mr Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya’s Mr Moses Wetang’ula were promised Prime Cabinet Secretary and National Assembly Speaker respectively.  Mr Odinga is on a four-day campaign tour covering Tana River, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa. He was accompanied by Mombasa Governor Mr Hassan Joho, politician Mr Peter Kenneth, Suna East MP Mr Junet Mohamed, Central Organisation of Trade Unions Secretary-General Mr Francis Atwoli, Kilifi governor aspirant Mr Gideon Mung’aro and Kilifi Senator Mr Stewart Madzayo.  Mr Kingi recently led PAA to Kenya Kwanza. Mr Odinga also told voters to reject Malindi MP and UDA governor aspirant Ms Aisha Jumwa and Kilifi North MP Mr Owen Baya, also accusing them of betraying him.  Mr Joho pleaded with Kilifi residents not to abandon ODM, saying: “ODM is a house you built from scratch and you should not abandon it for anything else, particularly at a time Raila is at the verge of becoming president.”  Mr Atwoli and Mr Junet claimed Dr Ruto had given Mr Kingi, Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula a raw deal in the power sharing plan. He said they would not deliver on the targets set by the DP.  Mr Odinga vowed to address historical land injustices at and ensure resettlement of squatters. He said he was aware of existing land problem and would roll out a resettlement programme.   By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago