Deputy President William Ruto yesterday extended his war of words with President Uhuru Kenyatta, asking him to blame his newfound allies for the government failures.  Speaking in Bungoma, Ruto said those blaming him for the poor Jubilee performance should instead censure those who “replaced me in government”.  During an economic forum in Bungoma, he lamented that had been labelled an absentee assistant by his boss, and challenged the president to cite even a single failure on his part that led to Jubilee’s poor show.    “Let him point out any constitutional task he assigned me that remains unaccomplished. What haven’t I done as his deputy?” he posed. “When the president decided he wanted to work with other people, I respected his wishes because that is the most I could do. So, nobody should blame me. Those who replaced me and failed to assist the president should carry their crosses.”  The UDA party leader, who was flanked by Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya), Moses Kuria (Chama cha Kazi) and Justin Muturi (Democratic Party), declared an all-out war against “political traitors” like Raila Odinga and Uhuru.  He characterised his top crème Kenya Kwanza formation as “victims of betrayal” who had gathered together to end what he called “an ongoing era of political betrayal and conmanship.”  Ruto, who will wind up his western Kenya economic tours today in Trans Nzoia, vowed to “reward all who have stood with me like Wetang’ula and the rest because I am not known for going against my word.”  “Musalia and Wetang’ula were betrayed in NASA by Raila just like Muturi, Kuria and I were betrayed in Jubilee by Uhuru... I have supported Uhuru in 2002, 2013 and twice in 2017 until he kicked me out and brought in a team that has messed up his legacy,” he said.  The DP, however, extended an olive branch to his boss saying he was available if “he still needs my services” but castigated Raila as the key architect of the Jubilee mess that has seen the cost of living hit the roof.  In keeping the tempo, Mudavadi called on Kenyans to hand Kenya Kwanza a decisive first-round presidential victory “so that Raila who is used to petitioning against election victories feels ashamed to go to court”.  The ANC leader described his stay in NASA under Raila as constrained and oppressive, saying there was a sense of belonging and confidence in Kenya Kwanza.  “Look, if Uhuru has failed to convince Muturi his close buddy and Kuria his MP to join Azimio, what are you, a random Bungoma man, doing in Azimio? Does the president know you exist?” posed Mudavadi.  Wetang’ula regretted that Western Kenya had voted for Raila time and again “until he (Raila) has grown arrogant thinking he is more Luhya than the rest of us.”  Muturi said that Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition had a slave-owner mentality.  “When I joined Ruto, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi, I was castigated by some top country leadership because of the slave-owner mentality they have,” said Muturi.  Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka reiterated he would be vying for the Bungoma governor seat and vowed to “trickle to the grassroots all the Kenya Kwanza goodies he would receive.”  The alliance vowed to write off all the debts owed by State-owned millers in their first 100 days in power.  By Oscar Obonyo | 15 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 7 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 7 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 7 hours ago