As the world marked Labour Day on Sunday, stakeholders expressed their concern over the continued casualisation of labour by various flower farms.  They noted that some farms in Naivasha had opted to employ workers on six-month contracts, which locks them out from some benefits.  The farms’ owners have defended themselves, attributing the move to harsh economic times.  The Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union (KPAWU) accused some of the farms of intentionally doing this, with the contracts ending just when salaries are about to be reviewed.  According to the KPAWU Naivasha branch secretary-general Mr Ferdinand Juma, the trend is also meant to lock out workers from being represented by the trade union. Mr Juma said the seasonal workers were not entitled to pay rise and other benefits awarded only to permanent employees.   “We have seen cases where investors are employing workers on a seasonal basis, meaning that they cannot get the annual pay rise or leave as per the labour laws,” he said.  Mr Juma said the union could do little for seasonal workers, as they are not members of KPAWU. “The employment of workers on contract is well planned and meant to lock out the union and phase out the issue of annual pay increase,” he said.  Kenya Export, Floriculture, Horticulture and Allied Workers Union chairperson Mr Peter Pallang’a said the Covid-19 pandemic had affected employers and employees.  He promised to work with employers to cushion workers. “Despite the recent pandemic, we need to review the workers’ terms and conditions of payment. This can be resolved by amending the archaic labour laws,” he said.  Mr Pallang’a said the union was keen to avoid demonstrations and court battles with employers, terming them expensive and a waste of man hours. “Many workers, mainly in the flower and fruit farms, are still earning low wages, and we are keen to address that,” he said.  Kenya Flower Council CEO Clement Tulezi had earlier defended the farmers, saying many were yet to recover from the pandemic.  “The profit margin for the farmers has been reduced sharply due to the rise in the cost of production in the last one year,” he said.      By Antony Gitonga | 1 hour ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 9 hours ago