A woman is struggling to save the life of her baby, who was born with complications.  Nancy Apoma said she was expecting a healthy baby, but was shocked when she gave birth to a baby who appeared to have two heads on April 15.  On the right side of the forehead is a swelling as big as the baby’s head. The infant also has a smaller protuberance on the left side of the head and cleft palate.  Doctors at the Alupe Hospital in Busia advised her to take the baby for further examinations.  “One of the doctors told me I had given birth to a baby with complications and that I had been referred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital where a review would be done on the baby by a neurosurgeon,” said Ms Apoma at her home in Omoloi village, Teso South. She has not taken the baby to the Eldoret hospital as instructed due to lack of money.  “I experience challenges breastfeeding her due to her condition,” said the mother of two.  “I attended clinics dutifully at a nearby health centre and did everything as recommended. The nurses never sensed anything wrong during antenatal clinics.”  The family had earlier invited friends and well-wishers to raise money for the baby's treatment “but only a handful of people turned up and we raised Sh20,000 only. We were told to have at least Sh100,000 before setting on the journey to Moi Referral Hospital.”  He cousin, Patrick Ekisa, said they have been running up and down looking for money.  “We want the baby to be seen by specialists soonest possible, but money is the problem.”  “We urge well-wishers, including medical specialists, to come to our aide so that we can save the life of this angel.”  Jane Aramasi-Nyanyake, the baby's grandmother, said no one in the family has ever given birth to a baby with similar complications.  “It is something rare but we believe the baby will be fine and grow health if she receives specialized treatment,” said Prackceedes Atiang', a neighbour.  By Jackline Inyanji | 1 hour ago By Brian Kisanji | 2 days ago By Alexander Chagema | 2 days ago By Nathan Ochunge | 3 days ago