Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition leaders in Nyanza have agreed to embrace all affiliate parties are equal partners and give an equal platform ahead of presidential candidate Raila Odinga’s campaign tour of the region.   Yesterday, ODM chairman John Mbadi and Kisii Governor James Ongwae presided over the inaugural Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance presidential campaign meeting at the coalition’s secretariat Kisumu were the agreement to put aside their differences was reached.  The meeting also discussed the establishment of campaign teams at the ward level.   In addition, they agreed to seek an audience with Raila with a view to having the recently appointed presidential campaign team expanded to reflect the face of all parties campaigning for him.  And there was consensus that individual and local party differences should not feature during Raila’s tour with the focus being on delivering over 95 per cent of the votes. Others in attendance included Governors Prof Anyang Nyongo (Kisumu) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Migori Deputy Governor Nelson Mahanga, Uriri MP Mark Nyamita and coordinators from all Nyanza counties.  Mbadi said the team will leave nothing to chance in its bid to garner majority votes in the region.  “Nyanza remains our stronghold. We are up to the task in ensuring that we have attained our target,” he said.  Ongwae called on other leaders drumming up support for Raila to remain committed and true to their word.  “We have an opportunity to show the country that we are giving out a candidate who has a formidable control of his house. This is a moment that everyone of us has been waiting for; the Raila presidency is fast beckoning.”   Nyong’o said he will reactivate his supporters to ensure that the region gives Raila a resounding victory.  “Let us not wait for miracles, the only way to win in an election is through mobilising the electorates and having them cast their votes. Azimio has the best ideas on how to transform the country.”  Raila is set to tour the counties of Kisii, Nyamira, Homabay, Migori, Kisumu, Siaya in the coming weeks.  Nyanza region is a key voting bloc for Raila, being his backyard, and has in the past voted overwhelmingly for Raila.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 6 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 8 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich | 9 hours ago