Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho addressed Mombasa residents during Eid Baraza at Treasury area in Mombasa County on Tuesday 3, May 2022. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Rivalry between Wiper party and ODM over elective seats at the Coast threatens the unity of Azimio la Umoja One Kenya.  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho led a section of ODM leaders to criticize Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's allies for allegedly fanning tribal politics in the region.  The leaders said former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's decision to vie for Mombasa governor goes against an agreement which dictates that top political seats should be reserved for the natives of any place.  Led by Mr Joho and former Lands Chief Administration Secretary Gideon Mung'aro, the leaders drawn from Mombasa and Kilifi counties said Sonko's candidature was a sign of disrespect to the Coastal people. The governor said different tribes have live in harmony in Mombasa and warned leaders out to exploit racial, religious and tribal diversities for political expediency.  "Our diversity is our strength. We have lived in harmony and welcomed everyone who wants to come to Mombasa to do business. We warn those out to create divisions and violence that we are ready for them," said Joho.  He assured that he will move across the Coast to campaign for ODM candidates saying nothing will stop Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga from pushing for six piece vote in the region.    "Wiper candidates should ask their leader to come and campaign for them. ODM leadership will vigorously campaign for six piece vote in Coast," said Joho during Idd Baraza at Treasury square in Mombasa.  Mr Mung'aro who is ODM Kilifi governorship candidate said political leadership in Coast should be left for the natives.  "This is a very bad sign (Sonko's candidature). If he wins then it means that forces with money can bring in candidates for MCA, MP and other seats and buy us to vote for them," he said.  He noted that they welcome people from all tribes to do business and stay in Coast but top political leadership positions should be left to locals. "This is an unwritten rule," said Mr Mung'aro.  "We have our own problem but we do not have the shortage of people who can lead us. We will not accept a situation where people from outside will chose leaders for us the people of Coast," he added.  The former CAS urged residents to reject candidates being imposed on the region. "This is not incitement. It is a fight for our inalienable right as the people of Coast," he said.   In an interview with KTN News, Sonko however said he was born and raised in Mombasa and has the right to vie for a political seat anywhere in the country. He said Mombasa was his home county.  "I was born in Majengo. My mother died and was buried in Mombasa. The Constitution does not stop me from contesting for any seat anywhere in the country," he said.  Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said Kalonzo had in the past rejected demands to support his tribesman in Taita Taveta and stated that political leadership should be left to the natives. "We want to ask him what has changed," said Mr Twalib.  Likoni MP Mishi Mboko claimed that Sonko's candidature was a sign of how lowly the Wiper leader rates the Coast leadership. She said the former governor failed in Nairobi and asked voters to reject him.  "Mombasa and Coast in general will not be a dumping site for political rejects. He can come with his money and promises but voters in Mombasa will reject him," said Ms Mboko. "Who said Coast women cannot give birth to leaders?" She posed.  Sonko is this week expected to officially launch his bid for Mombasa governor. He has already picked Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo as his running mate.  Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said they will rally voters behind Mvita MP Abdulswad Sharrif Nassir for governorship.  Other candidates in the race to succeed Joho are former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar Sarai of UDA and former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Vibrant Democratic Party.     By Judah Ben-Hur and Jacob Ng’etich | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 1 hour ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 hour ago By Peterson Githaiga | 1 hour ago