Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Some 45 out of 50 Wiper party candidates have voted for Kalonzo Musyoka’s return to the Azimio-One Kenya alliance during a meeting this morning.  Only five voted against his return to the Raila-led political coalition.  The aspirants organised the meeting to discuss the party’s way forward and ensure they clinch many seats in the August 9 polls, Matungulu MP Stephen Mule had told KTN News.  Mr Musyoa is out of the country. According to Matungulu MP Stephen Mule, the meeting’s main agenda was to formulate a strategy to ensure the party bags most of the seats in the region (Machakos, Kitui and Makueni).  “This is an aspirant-only meeting. The main agenda is to plan Ukambani politics and how we will ensure that candidates vying on a Wiper ticket win most seats in Machakos, Kitui and Makueni,” Mule told KTN News.  Mule said the party’s decision to front a separate presidential candidate from the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition has not changed.  While claiming that the Azimio-One Kenya coalition was pressuring Wiper to re-join them, he reiterated that Kalonzo was still running for president and hinted at the possibility of holding a national rally.  “Kalonzo’s position has not changed. He will run for president alongside Sunkuli, his running mate. His final decision will be known at a national rally. But people have different opinions,” he added.  In response to complaints by some of the region’s politicians about the campaign budget disruption, Mule said the meeting would address the issue is Any Other O.Business (A.O.B).  Last week, political leaders allied to the Wiper party complained they had branded their campaigns with Azimio colours only for Kalonzo to exit the coalition.  “Democracy is expensive. That is the price. Their complaints will be looked into and we will craft a way to facilitate the affected members. Kenyans should know that Wiper party has a clear structure of operating," said Mule.   Days ago, a section of leaders from the region expressed their fears that Kalonzo’s exit might cost the region a number of development projects.  The region had been promised positions in government if the Azimio coalition formed the next government.  By Nathan Ochunge | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 1 hour ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago