Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga has promised to institute a raft of reforms to support persons living with disabilities (PWDs) if he forms the next government.  Mr Odinga stated that it is high time that PWDs get equal opportunities like everybody else arguing that Kenya cannot achieve development goals if it relegates some people in the tail end of the national development roadmap. Addressing PWDs at Nyayo National Stadium, Nairobi yesterday, the ODM leader promised to review the Persons with Disabilities Act No. 14 of 2003 to increase the employment of the group in public institutions from the current five per cent to 10 per cent.  “As a start, we need to put all PWDs on some kind of support depending on their needs…I will push the government to offer free education to all PWDs in all public schools in colleges and universities while also increasing your access to government procurement opportunities,” said Mr Odinga.  The Azimio presidential candidate further promised to push for tax exemptions for PWDs and strengthening institutions that offer support to them such as the Kenya Institute of Special Education and the National Council for Persons with Disabilities. To have PWDs incorporated into the fabric of the public sector, Mr Odinga promised to include them in boards, committees and councils in all public institutions such as schools, universities, colleges, parastatals and other government agencies.   Meanwhile Odinga’s running mate Martha Karua has told their competitors in Kenya Kwanza Alliance to spell out how they intend to fight corruption in the country. Saying sealing corruption loopholes was the only way for Deputy President William Ruto to implement his campaign promises.  Karua who addressed residents of Laikipia and Nyandarua in a series of rallies yesterday said DP Ruto’s promises are built on quick sand and had no foundation. Ruto has promised Kenyans that if elected, his government will set aside Sh100 billion to establish job employment opportunities for the youth. Ruto has also promised to channel Sh50 billion annually towards supporting micro small and medium enterprises should he assume office as President.  While dismissing Ruto’s pledges, Karua asked the DP first to tell Kenyans where the monies will come from and how he will tackle graft.  “They are just making promises of setting billions of money aside, but they are not telling us how they will fight graft,” Karua said.  Ms Karua told Laikipia residents that their rivals can’t be trusted with public resources saying Azimio camp was a combination of clean pair of hands known for their commitment to serve Kenyans through personal sacrifices.  By Stephen Nzioka | 5 hours ago By Steve Mkawale and James Munyeki | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 5 hours ago