Deputy President William Ruto yesterday unveiled politicians who will coordinate campaigns across the country which oversaw the incorporation of some individuals into the economic team, led by economist, Prof David Ndii.  Ruto said the team is tasked with spearheading campaigns across nine regions of Coast, South Eastern, Mt Kenya East, Central Kenya, Rift Valley, Nyanza, Western region, North Eastern, and Upper Eastern.  The DP said the teams will coordinate Kenya Kwanza Alliance’s campaign programmes, and the modalities of how multiple candidates will be engaged in the campaign to avoid unhealthy competition and ensure victory in the first round.    Speaking at his Karen residence during the unveiling of his running mate, Ruto said UDA will have no zoning and all parties will be allowed to field their candidates. “We will however as Kenya Kwanza empower our candidates in every ward, constituency, and county with scientific information on the performance of each and every candidate and encourage local agreements amongst the different parties in different electoral areas, to negotiate and agree on the best approach to our alliance winning a majority of seats at every level,” said Ruto  Ruto tasked governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy and Taita Taveta woman Representative Lydia Haika to take charge of Coast region activities.  UDA chairman Johnson Muthama, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Penina Malonza, Adelina Mwau and Jonathan Mueke will take charge of the South Eastern while National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, and Tharaka Nithi Woman Rep Beatrice Nkatha will run Mt Kenya East activities.  In the voter-rich Central Kenya, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru her Nyeri counterpart Mutahi Kahiga, TSP leader Mwangi Kiunjuri, former governor William Kabogo, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah, Nyandarua Woman Rep Faith Gitau and Patrick Mariru will run its campaign programme.  Former Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter got back into the political fold to lead the Rift Valley region political activities alongside Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, governors Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu), Samuel Tunai (Narok), Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Murkomen, Margaret Wanjala and Immaculate Shamala.  In Nyanza, the DP named Migori Governor Okoth Obado, Charles Nyachae, political strategist Eliud Owalo, South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro, and his West Mugirango counterpart Vincent Kimosi while Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Beatrice Adagala, Benjamin Washiali, Ababu Namwamba, and Emmanuel Osore will lead the team in Western Region.  Garissa town MP Adan Duale and Ahmed Kolosh would take charge of North Eastern while Rasso Dido Ali and Hassan Tene will take on the Upper Eastern.   At the same time, Ruto announced that to facilitate and fast track this process, parties that have recently joined Kenya Kwanza Alliance had recommended some politicians to work in the alliance’s economic team, led by Prof Ndii.  “We agreed on how to share responsibilities and how the campaign programme will be coordinated to facilitate a Kenya Kwanza win in the first round,” the DP said.   Ruto said that they had also tasked a team to prepare a schedule, accelerate and finalise the county economic charters for the remaining devolved units, to be concluded within 45 days.  The economic team will also work on a rapid program for completion of stalled, ongoing, and new projects.    By Allan Mungai | 4 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 4 hours ago