Kenya-Kwanza Alliance leaders have turned the heat on President Uhuru Kenyatta over claims that Deputy President William Ruto failed to support his administration.  Speaking at Kapsabet showgrounds, during the thanksgiving ceremony for Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, said that instead of giving a message of hope to Kenyans grappling with harsh economic times, the president used Labour Day celebrations to lament over his deputy.   Mr Mudavadi slammed the president for failing to take control of the government.  "He cannot stand up on the Labour Day and blame his deputy for the high cost of living. The president must ask himself when did he call for a Cabinet meeting to deliberate on the economic situation and way forward," he stated.  He attributed the high cost of living on the huge public debt saying Kenyans have been forced to dig deeper into their pockets to afford basic necessities.  Governor Sang said that the government delivered during the first term but things started falling apart when the President sidelined Ruto and delegated some government functions to Cabinet Secretaries.  He exonerated the DP from blame on the failures of the government, saying that he was not given a chance to do his job.  The governor claimed that Uhuru instead chose to clip Ruto's powers.  “The president has often complained about his deputy. But for five years he worked with him on transforming Kenya, and this is what earned them the second term. However, in this second term, Raila Odinga had been the President's preferred de facto deputy,” Sang said.  “You (President Kenyatta) transferred the functions of the DP to other people, and now he blames the DP for the failures of his own doing," he added.  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said that the president let the Jubilee Party, which had more than 200 MPs to collapse and now is now desperate to revive it.  "It is late for people to start complaining now. I have moved around listening to the opinions of the people in many parts of the country as a spokesperson of my people. The people I have consulted are so many, and they told me the winning formula is here (Kenya Kwanza). I then had talks with the Kenya Kwanza leaders and agreed to work together," he said.  Vihiga Women Rep Beatrice Adagala said that the Kenya Kwanza leadership would ensure economic transformation if elected in the August 9 General Election.  "Being a Labour Day, the people of Kenya have nothing to celebrate because they are suffering due to inflation and rice in prices of basic commodities. We pray that this will change in the coming government of Kenya Kwanza," she said.  Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago also attended the event among other leaders.  By Antony Gitonga | 8 hours ago By Anthony Gitonga | 1 day ago By Bakari Angela | 1 day ago By Daniel Chege | 3 days ago