The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission-IEBC today embarked on its second day of clearing political aspirants ahead of the August 9 General Election.  Several aspirants presented their papers as they seek to battle with incumbents in varios elective positions.  On day one, several aspirants were forced to wait for hours at various IBEC stations as the commission started the verification and clearance exercise.    Those who were cleared said the process took more than three hours. Today in Homabay, former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo who is eyeing Homa Bay Town parliamentary seat on Green Congress of Kenya (GCK) was cleared Monday morning.  Lawyer Humphrey Obach who is eyeing Homa Bay parliamentary seat as an independent candidate was cleared too.  In Rangwe constituency, researcher Achuodho Kachuodho was cleared. He expressed optimism that he will empower Rangwe residents.  He called on residents to support him so that he can acquire victory on August 9. "I am now a candidate in this race. I plan to use my network to establish a pineapple processing industry if elected.”  In Ndhiwa former MP Agostino Neto was cleared. Neto expressed optimism in his bid to unseat the current MP Martin Owino.  “This clearance is an indication that we must initiate a change in Ndhiwa,” Neto said.  Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’ was also cleared to defend his seat.  Homa Bay County returning officer Fredrick Apopa told politicians to campaign peacefully.  “What we require from the candidates is peace during the electioneering period.”  In Kisii, Jubilee party senate aspirant Omingo Magara received his nomination certificate at the IEBC County offices.  In Bonchari constituency, Charles Mogaka (UPIA), Cliff Ombeta (UDA) and Zebedeo Opore (Jubilee) too received their IEBC nomination certificates.  The three called on their opponents to conduct peaceful campaigns. Opore said he had taken a break from politics in the past but promised to make a resounding comeback in the August polls.  Kisumu Central MP aspirant Joshua Oron was the first candidate to be cleared for the Member of Parliament seat Monday morning.  He commended the IEBC for a well organised smooth process to run as an ODM nominee for Kisumu Central.   He asked his opponents to maintain discipline and ensure peaceful campaigns as they await the general elections in August.  Mr Oron said being an ODM party ticket holder he will be advocating for six-piece voting starting from the presidential seat down to the Member of County Assembly (MCA) as his campaigns officially kick off today.  In Migori County, Eddy Oketch who is running for the Senate seat failed to get cleared after he was found lacking some credentials.  John Zatta who is running for the Rongo MP seat was also not clear, on similar grounds as Oketch.  According to Oketch, there was a mix-up in dates and he had to go back and correct that.  "I have an appointment with IEBC at 3pm. We are going to correct the dates and make our way back to the IEBC offices," Mr Oketch said.  Oketch was one of the nominees who bagged an ODM direct ticket. Despite the process having technical hitches, a number of leaders including Rongo MP Paul Abuor, Nyatike MP Tom Odege, Former Suna West MP Joseph Ndiege and Jared Kwaga Uriri MP aspirant presented their papers on May 29 and were cleared to vie for the parliamentary seats.  Yesterday, Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko, Awendo MP Walter Owino, Suna East MP aspirant Elijah Odhiambo, Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, Suna West MP Peter Masara and Rongo MP aspirant Nelson Oluoch were cleared by the independent body.  Abuor, Odege, Nyamita, Owino bagged the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party's direct ticket, while Masara won the ticket in the April 18 nominations.  Masara won after he got 8,799 votes, a win by 128 votes against his opponent Ndiege.  Ndiege, Kwaga, Odhiambo and Oluoch are running with independent ticket  Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo and his Gem Counterpart Elisha Odhiambo were cleared to defend their seats.  MP Amollo called for peaceful campaigns ahead of August elections. He asked his competitors to carry out uniting, issue-based and peaceful campaigns.  MP Odhiambo said he is ready to forfeit the legal costs of the court director Jalango to pay him for the sake of Gem electorates.  (Reporting by Olivia Odhiambo, Eric Abuga, James Omoro, Sharon Owino, Anne Atieno)  By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo, Stanley Ongwae and Erick Abuga | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago By Olivia Odhiambo and Isaiah Gwengi | 3 days ago