City residents yesterday got a rare chance to experience an airshow at the revamped Uhuru Gardens in Nairobi’s Lang’ata area.  The airshow, dubbed Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) Museum Air Show Festival was a joint activity between Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and Aero Club of East Africa (ACEA).  This is not the first time the military and civilian air operators were coming together to treat the public to exciting displays of aerobatic capabilities.    Spectators that had gathered at the venue were treated to a display of various types of airplanes including fighter jets and helicopters, Green Eagles free fall on parachutes and skydivers. Before the activities, heavy traffic to the venue was witnessed along Lang’ata road as guests trooped to the venue.  Security both inside Uhuru Gardens and outside was tight as police, National Youth Service (NYS), General Service Unit (GSU) and KDF checked everyone entering the venue.  The security checks involved using sniffer dogs and nothing was left to chance. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed were among the high profile guests who witnessed the airshow.  The venue was filled to the brim with many parents taking advantage of the half-term school break to bring their children to enjoy the show.  Maroon Commandos were also present and kept the guests entertained throughout the event.  Big screens were also mounted around the venue to allow those who couldn’t get inside the venue to follow from a distance.  There were some scary moments when the fighter jets flew close to the visitors.  One of the best moments was when two Huey helicopters landed in the middle of the ground to pick their Green Eagles members.  At exactly 2:24pm, Mr Kenyatta arrived accompanied by Ahmed. The event was climaxed with a Kenya Air Force plane rescuing an ‘injured’ officer.  The plane stopped mid-air for about 30 minutes as the other soldiers including a paramedic dropped down using a rope.  After the airshow, Uhuru left at about 4:30pm, but not before greeting visitors who requested for more of such events.   “I am so happy today, I brought my three grandchildren to enjoy the show. This was a journey down memory lane for me and I hope we see more of such events,” said Mwethe Peter Sammy, who retired from the army a few years ago after serving 34 years.  He said the choice of venue was historical because it’s the same place the freedom flag was raised.  The event was also attended by ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau and Service Commanders.  By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 7 hours ago By George Maringa | 9 hours ago