Wiper UK Chapter has asked the ODM leader Raila Odinga and Jubilee Party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta to be gentlemen and honour the three-legged stool mantra in which Azimio One Kenya Coalition was born.  The members expressed sympathy on how the principal was maltreated despite being a key pillar of the coalition.  Vice Chairperson UK Chapter Janet Sutton said Kalonzo has every right to be upset adding that the coalition should be guided by mutual trust and respect for all principals and not run as a two-people affair.  "From where I stand, Kalonzo is being treated as an outsider in the three-legged stool, a concept that was highly publicised in the events leading to the formation of Azimio One Kenya Coalition," Sutton said.  Wiper UK Secretary-General Thomas Musau said political arithmetic notwithstanding, Kalonzo deserves proper recognition in the Coalition as a person not only endowed with immense political experience as a former Vice President. Musau added that Kalonzo is, “a Kamba community elder who has consistently delivered over 90 per cent of lower eastern votes to Raila Odinga during the last two elections in which he was the running mate ... He has played a pivotal role in shaping the Azimio la Umoja national image and therefore cannot be ignored,”  "We will accept nothing short of a written commitment from both Uhuru and Raila on the future of our party leader in Azimio,” Musau commented.  The Deputy Secretary-General of Azimio One Kenya Coalition - UK chapter, Mr Musau, did not however elaborate on the repercussions if any, should demands remain unmet.  Wiper Diaspora Youth Coordinator Ibrahim Jeff Ndambuki echoed his team’s position on the Wiper Party Leader having a stake in the next government stating that the lower region has been marginalised for many years in terms of senior government appointments.  Ndambuki said the Kamba nation is not complete without Kalonzo and any attempt to sideline him will have immense consequences for Azimio at the August 9 election.  "We will lead the nation into a possible run-off by fielding our party leader as a presidential candidate and depending on the cards on the table we shall advise our Party Leader on which way to lead the community in voting," said Ndambuki.  They spoke after meeting Wiper Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka in London during his private trip to the United Kingdom.  By Edwin Nyarangi | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 12 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 21 hours ago