ODM leader Raila Odinga with Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyongo at the 2022 Africities Conference in Mamboleo Kisumu County on May 17, 2022 [Collins Oduor, Standard]  A day after he picked Narc-K leader Martha Karua as his running mate, Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga exuded confidence the pair will deliver the country’s third liberation should they win the presidency.  Speaking in Kisumu, Mr Odinga outlined the plans they have to transform the economy. He said illiteracy, poverty and diseases are still major problems bedevilling the country over five decades after independence.  Mr Odinga said his team has the formula to put the country on the right track.  Among the plans he said they have in place is to ensure that counties receive at least 35 per cent of the national revenue to help fast-track development. “We will deliver to Kenyans the third liberation. Several years since we attained independence, we are still struggling to address poverty, illiteracy and sickness,” Mr Odinga said.  The country’s first liberation brought independence from British colonisers, while the second liberation brought multi-partyism.    At stops in Nyamasaria, Ahero and Rabuor, an upbeat Odinga also vouched for his medical healthcare plan dubbed “Babacare” which he described as a game-changer that will enable Kenyans to access healthcare with ease.  “Poverty, diseases and ignorance are our greatest enemies and we will deal with them,” said Mr Odinga said.  He also rooted for his economic programmes including social welfare programme, creation of jobs, prioritising value addition, and revamping businesses.  The ODM chief said that should he win the presidency, they will introduce tax waivers will also concentrate on improving the country’s manufacturing potential. “We will empower the youth, create for them employment and create conducive conditions for them to thrive,” said Mr Odinga.  Among the programmes he said his administration will develop include investment in education and training.   By Gilda Naibei | 35 minutes ago By Standard Team | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 35 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 35 minutes ago