Seven bodies that were being detained at a Coast hospital mortuary over unpaid bills can now be collected for burial after former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko cleared the fees.  The former governor, through the Sonko Rescue Team, will also help the bereaved families transport their kin home.  The bodies will be transported to Siaya, Kisumu, Mwingi and Taveta starting today, according to Sonko Rescue Team coordinator Mohamed Jawa.  Some of the families confirmed the former governor's team had contacted them.  The beneficiaries include the family of Patrick Musa whose body has been at the mortuary for the past two months. A relative, Thomas Wingi, said the hospital detained the body after they failed to raise the mortuary fees. Mr Wingi said the body will be transported to Mwingi for burial.  "We are happy that we will finally take our brother to his final resting place. We approached the Sonko Rescue Team over the difficulties we are facing and it is now confirmed that we will be given a hearse to transport the body. The mortuary fee has also been paid," said Mr Wingi.      Mr Jawa said five bodies will be removed from the mortuary on Thursday while two will be transported on Friday.  Meanwhile, the Sonko Rescue Team has recruited 200 youth who will be working for the organisation in various parts of Mombasa ahead of the outfit's planned relocation from Nairobi this week, according to Jawa.  "Those we have recruited have already started working at Mishomoroni and Tudor,” said Mr Jawa.  Mr Jawa revealed that the team is planning to recruit more youth in Changamwe, Likoni, Nyali, Jomvu and Mvita, "even as we plan to take our services to all constituencies".  Some of the hired youth were seen cleaning streets at Mishomoroni, along Lights and Mwisho Wa Lami road.  Mr Jawa said Sonko will also be launching the Sonko Rescue Team after all its vehicles in Nairobi have been relocated to Mombasa.  “Some of the vehicles have already arrived in Mombasa and we have taken them for service before launching our services full-scale,” said Jawa.  Sonko whose entry into Mombasa politics has rattled local politicians is expected to start campaign this week for the governorship. However, there are fears that he might be barred from contesting because he has active corruption cases before courts.  Sonko was impeached for, among others, financial impropriety and violation of Chapter Six of the Constitution.    By Lynn Kolongei | 22 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 2 days ago By Philip Mwakio and Willis Oketch | 2 days ago By Philip Mwakio | 3 days ago