Sports CS Amina Mohammed with FKF caretaker committee members at Kasarani Stadium on May 10, 2022. [Jonah Onyango, Standard]  Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has appointed the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee which will serve for a period of five weeks.  The appointment comes days after the FKF Caretaker Committee handed over six-month report to the CS.  Through a Gazette notice dated May 13, 2022, Amina Mohamed has appointed the same people who served in the Caretaker Committee.  It shall comprise of: Aaron Ringera – Chairperson  Maurice Oyugi – Vice-Chairperson  Ali Amour  Bobby Ogolla  Neddy Atieno  Ceasar Handa  Hassan Haji  J. Masiga (Dr.)  Michael Muchemi  Rachael Kamweru  Mwangi Muthee  Anthony Isayi  The Transition Committee shall also have a Secretariat whose members are:  Lindah Oguttu – Head of the Secretariat  Lorine Nerea – Secretary  Edward Rombo – Joint Secretary  Robin Toskin  Rashid Shedu  Maxwell Wasike  “The mandate of the Transition Committee shall be to: (a) conduct the affairs of Football Kenya Federation in accordance with the Constitution of Football Kenya Federation; (b) ensure that Football Kenya Federation operates within the provisions of the Sports Act, 2013; (c) co-ordinate and ensure the smooth running of Football Kenya Federation operations, including team preparations for local and international sporting events; and (d) co-ordinate and facilitate the validation of the draft Constitution of Football Kenya Federation.” Said Amina.  During the submission of the report on May 10, 2022, the CS said that the ministry will provide a clear roadmap on the future of Kenyan football.  The FKF Caretaker Committee had been in existence for six months, having been appointed on November 11, 2022 when Amina opted to disband the Nick Mwendwa-led Football Kenya Federation.  In its report, the Caretaker Committee proposed that the FKF Constitution be amended to conform with the Kenyan Constitution and Sports Act among other issues.  By Antony Gitonga | 5 minutes ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 50 minutes ago By Bradley Sikolia | 55 minutes ago By George Maringa | 17 hours ago