Politicians affiliated to Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance have criticised Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua for quitting the coalition for rival Kenya Kwanza Alliance.  Led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, the leaders claimed Dr Mutua’s move was driven by selfish rather than transparent interests, which the Machakos county boss complained lacked in Azimio.  Dr Mutua claimed the Raila Odinga-led coalition was operating in secrecy as it seeks to eliminate small parties through zoning.    “We are not party to any decision-making processes on issues involving the coalition. We just hear these things in the media like everybody else yet we are part of the coalition. It has turned into a group of friends who meet for tea and make decisions,” Dr Mutua said.  Ms Ngilu and Mr Mohammed, however, have rubbished Dr Mutua’s claims, saying the governor was engaged in horse-trading politics.  “Governor Alfred Mutua is selfish and serves his own interest by ditching Azimio. He has not moved with us as the Kamba nation; it is petty being offered little money and you betray your people. It is shameful and be assured he has walked into a ditch he will regret in the near future,” said Ms Ngilu.  Mr Mohammed said those who want to leave like Dr Mutua should just walk out instead of rocking the boat from within in the hope that Mr Odinga will compromise into giving bribes and cover corruption.   Terming Kenya Kwanza Alliance as a coalition of looters enjoying proceeds of corruption, Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe promised the party will deliver votes for Mr Odinga and successfully usher him to the presidency, come August.  “Take it from me, this time we are not doing trial and errors, Raila is the next president,” he said.  The leaders spoke yesterday in Kajiado County during rallies to support the re-election of governor Joseph Ole Lenku.   Also accompanying Mr Odinga were Nairobi governor Ann Kananu, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Kajiado nominated Senator Judith Pareno and a host of local leaders.   Mr Odinga endorsed Mr Lenku who is vying on his Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party ticket. Mr Odinga’s decision is likely to cause further cracks in the coalition where former former Kajiado governor David Ole Nkedianye is seeking to dethrone Mr Lenku through a Jubilee ticket.  “I know all of you are my foot soldiers; however, I’m sure governor Lenku can do better, lets give him another chance to complete the projects he has initiated. I therefore say ‘Lenku tosha’. We are focused on beating our competitors and he is capable,” Mr Odinga told opinion leaders who had earlier gathered at Moipai primary school.  At the rally attended by Azimio supporters, Mr Odinga said if elected president, he will implement 35 per cent revenue allocation to counties.   “I’m sure that you will elect me as your president, if you do that I will make sure that my government increases the amount from 15 per cent to 35 per cent,” Mr Odinga pledged.   On his part, Mr Lenku spelt out his 2022-2027 manifesto saying that devolution will be more successful under an Odinga presidency.   By Stephen Nzioka | 6 days ago By Betty Njeru | 13 days ago By Victor Nzuma | 16 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 month ago