Rongai MP Raymond Moi has been cleared to defend the seat on a Kanu party ticket by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) after submitting his papers.  This brought to an end speculations that Raymond may not defend his seat in the coming polls due to health concerns which he said he has overcome.  “Those who thought that I will not be on the ballot are wrong. I have been cleared and energetic enough to start my campaigns immediately. My track record speaks for me,” said Raymond.  He called on his competitors to conduct campaigns peacefully saying that the interest of the electorates should come first.  “We must conduct ourselves with decorum knowing that the country is bigger than any of us. Peace and unity must prevail with respect to our various diversities,” said Raymond. National Assembly Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi was also cleared to defend his Kuresoi North Parliamentary seat as an independent candidate. Cheboi lost in the UDA party nominations.  His Jubilee Party competitor Joel Ayieni is scheduled to be cleared for the seat in the afternoon.  “I believe the people of Kuresoi will not look at the party but what I have done for them in the terms I have been in office. I was rigged out in the nominations but I have confidence in the IEBC,” said Cheboi.  Kimani Ngunjiri of UDA and his competitor Irene Njoki of Jubilee were cleared for the Bahati MP seat. John Quindos, an independent candidate is to be cleared in the afternoon.  “I have heavily invested in education and security during my tenure. I am confident that my people will reelect me. I am looking forward to a peaceful campaign and election,” said Ngunjiri.  Njoki said that the coming election was presenting a needed opportunity to change the constituency leadership which he accused of inefficiency.  “There are many gaps which are supposed to be addressed under the MP’s docket. I have confidence in IEBC that the election will be fair and bring change to Bahati especially in areas that have been neglected,” said Njoki.  Ngunjiri said that he was banking on his record for the past two terms to defend the seat in August.  Former Trade and Industrialization Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Lawrence Karanja was also cleared to vie for the Nakuru senatorial seat on a Jubilee Party ticket.  Karanja exuded confidence that he would trounce twelve other candidates in the race to succeed Senator Susan Kihika who is now vying for the governorship position.  “We have cleared one more huddle towards clinching the seat in August. It is time to campaign for Jubilee and the Azimio La Umoja coalition in the county,” said Karanja.  Former Naivasha MP John Mututho who is the ODM candidate for the seat was also cleared.  “We are in Azimio and we are determined to change the leadership of Nakuru County. Nakuru needs someone who will fight for its space at the national level,” said Mututho.  Keroche Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Tabitha Karanja is scheduled to be cleared in the afternoon. Mrs Karanja is vying for the Nakuru Senate seat on a UDA ticket.  Nakuru County Returning Officer Joseph Mele said that Daniel Kimani of Ford Kenya was not cleared after he presented a cheque of a lesser amount to the IEBC.  “We have given Kimani more time to present a cheque for the required Sh50,000. He had presented a cheque of a lesser amount charged on people below the age of 35,” said Mele.  He added that one of the independent candidates was not cleared for not meeting the minimum number of signatures he was supposed to present.  “ I am urging the candidates to observe the code of conduct and other laws of the land. We shall be closely monitoring their activities to ensure there is full compliance,” said Mele.  By Edwin Nyarangi | 3 hours ago By Nzau Musau | 4 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 9 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 10 hours ago