Most of the governorship contenders in Western have named men as their preferred running mates.  But Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has picked a woman in a calculated move to sway the women vote.  Dr Beatrice Inyangala, an accomplished scholar, was unveiled on Saturday in Kakamega town.  Dr Inyangala has been at the forefront in championing education reforms and demanding equality for women.  In her acceptance speech, Dr Inyangala said: “I believe together we shall make Kakamega a great county if elected.” Fernandes Barasa (ODM) who is considered Malala’s main rival was expected to name Lugari MP Ayub Savula for the number two slot.  Savula was prevailed upon to drop his bid by ODM and the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) in favour of the former Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited boss.  In Busia, former minister Paul Otuoma (ODM) has named former Teso North MP Arthur Odera as his running mate.  Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi has picked Tom Ibomai from Teso North as his second in command. Mulomi is vying on a DAP-K ticket.  Nambale MP John Bunyasi Sakwa has named Lawrence Murunga, the Angurai ward representative, as his running mate.  Daniel Magoria has picked Stephen Adeya, a researcher while Michael Oloo has settled on Okisai Omuse, a cleric, as his running mate.  Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo who is seeking a second term on the ODM ticket has dropped his deputy Dr Patrick Saisi and picked Wilberforce Kitiezo, a former Lugaga wa Muluma MCA.  Senator George Khaniri (UDP) has picked Gerald Samoyo, Francis Ominde (FPK) has picked Wycliffe Chabaya while former National Assembly speaker Kenneth Marende (DAP-K) has paired with Humphrey Kisia.  Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi (ANC) has picked Vincent Maitsi.  Former Governor Moses Akaranga of the Progressive Party of Kenya had earlier picked Paul Mbuni as his deputy but there are reports that he might have had a change of heart.  Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka were expected to name their running mates on Monday.  By Gilda Naibei | 35 minutes ago By Standard Team | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 35 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 35 minutes ago