Members of the civil society have pointed out twenty-five politicians who according to them, should not vie for any elective political seat due to alleged integrity issues facing them.  Under the umbrella of the National Integrity Alliance (NIA), civil society organisations have launched a campaign to bar politicians from seeking to be elected.   Among those the alliance wants to be prevented from contesting in the August 9 polls include Kenya Kwanza Alliance running mate designate, Rigathi Gachagua, governors Anne Waiguru of Kirinyaga, Ali Korane, (Garissa), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Mohammed Abdi Mohammud (Wajir), Twahim Twaha (Lamu), Godhana Dhadho (Tana River) and former Nairobi governors Evans Kidero and Mike Sonko.  Also featuring on the list of shame are Senators Cleophas Malala of Kakamega, Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Kembi Gitura (former Senate Deputy Speaker, MPs Aisha Juma (Malindi), Johanna Ng'eno (Emurua Dikirr), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Daniel Manduku (Nyaribari Masaba), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and John Waluke (Sirisia).  Others are Joseph Samal (Isiolo North), Mathew Lempurkel (Laikipia North), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), ex Principal Secretary Lilian Omollo and former Kibwezi East MP Philip Kaloki.  Consequently, NIA has launched a crusade dubbed Red Card Campaign and declared a 70-day sensitization drive against them.   The lobby group said it is paining that political parties nominated individuals with integrity issues. Addressing the press today, Carolyne Gaita, the chief executive officer, Trust Kenya, their alliance will not allow the politicians to ascend to public office and transform the seed of corruption into trunks of impunity.  "We are working with other agencies to ensure they do not hold any political office ever," she warned adding that in the last election, they listed persons who were not fit to be elected but the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) went ahead and cleared them.  According to NIA, the 25 politicians adversely been mentioned by investigative agencies or faced prosecution for corruption, economic crime and abuse of office or other criminal related offences.  "In 2017, we red carded 20 individuals that should not have been cleared for elections on grounds of integrity and corruption. Some of them were unfortunately elected such as Migori Governor Okoth Obado, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, and former governors Ferdinand Waititu and Mike Sonko.  They were eventually impeached and others are in court following new corruption charges, while some are subject of ongoing criminal investigations," noted Gaita.  Other charges facing the politicians include inflammatory utterances, abuse of office and dishonourable behaviour in public likely to undermine peace.  "The list has been generated from authentic and verifiable investigation reports. This includes the Office of the Auditor-General. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, National Cohesion and Integration Commission, Parliament and various case files in court," she said.  David Malombe, the deputy executive director of, the Kenya Human Rights Commission urged voters to reject the ballot for politicians facing integrity issues.   "The voter has the final say at the ballot. Reject candidates who do not meet leadership and integrity standards, and always demand accountability from your leaders and monitor adherence to Chapter Six of the Constitution and use of public resources," advised Malombe.  He said integrity is not having clearance from the IEBC, and EACC but getting legitimacy from the voters.  "Let's mirror ourselves from the past and make it good for the future. It is a big war to fight but we need to fight to the end," said Malombe. Others present were Wambu Kawive from Inuka Kenya, Sheila Masinde, executive director, Transparent International and Shiru Gikonyo of The Institute for Social Accountability (TISA).  By Antony Gitonga | 1 hour ago By Kamore Maina and Daniel Wesangula | 12 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 20 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 day ago