Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has picked Dr Mungai Mbugua as running mate [File, Standard]  Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has picked a running mate to replace his deputy.  Mr Kimemia settled on an engineer after Deputy Governor Cecilia Mbuthia opted out for personal reasons. In a letter to the governor, Ms Mbuthia thanked him for having worked together to develop the region in the last five years.  “I have accepted the request and I wish to thank the Deputy Governor for her loyalty in service and would always welcome her to continue working in government,” said the governor.  Mr Kimemia termed his running mate Joseph Mungai Mbugua as a distinguished son of Nyandarua with exemplary expertise, who he said brings wealth of experience to assist in the transformation journey that he started in 2017. “Mbugua’s choice is a product of wide consultation among various stakeholders in our beloved county,” he said.    “I present to you a candidate with a proven track record. A dedicated servant of the people who will assist me in fulfilling the remaining part of my manifesto and the County Integrated Development Plan II, which has seen Nyandarua become a model county.”  Mr Mbugua, who comes from Kinangop sub-County, is the outgoing Kenya Rural Roads Authority regional director.  The projects he has overseen include the Mau Mau roads, Njabini-Maraigushu- Naivasha, Engineer -Naivasha and Ndinda-Naivasha roads.  A holder of Bachelors of Science Degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Nairobi,  Mr Mbugua rose through the ranks to become one of the senior managers at the agency.  Meanwhile, Chama cha Mashinani (CCM) party leader Isaac Ruto, who is seeking to reclaim the Bomet governorship, has picked 29-year-old Dorcas Chepkoech as his running mate.  The former governor said his choice would give young people a chance in leadership.  Ms Chepkoech, who graduated in 2015, has been jobless. She unsuccessfully contested for Kapletundo Ward seat in the UDA party primaries.  She was five contestants who were interviewed for the position.  Mr Ruto said time for the youth had come, and that leaders should recognise their ability. If elected in the August 9 polls, Ms Chepkoech will be the youngest women to occupy the position.  She is the second-youngest female politician in the county to take part in the General Election after 24-year-old Linet Chepkorir, popularly known as Toto, who won the UDA ticket to contest for the Woman Rep seat.  By Phares Mutembei | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 10 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 18 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 day ago