Two nights before Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential aspirant Raila Odinga announced his running mate, several meetings were held with the Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.  According to sources, Raila's choice for Number Two was pegged on who his rival Deputy President William Ruto picks.  "Kalonzo knew from the word go that it would go to Mt Kenya if Kenya Kwanza Alliance settled for one from the region. He cannot say he did not see it coming; he needs to be honest," said Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu.  When Raila met Kalonzo on Saturday night after Kenya Kwanza nominated Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, it was to convince him to settle for the chief minister position.  The meeting at Kalonzo's Karen home started in the evening and Raila left by around 10pm. "I told Raila, 'let me sleep over it'," Kalonzo said when he was unveiling businessman Andrew Sunkuli as his running mate on Monday.  Prior to that meeting, President Uhuru Kenyatta had on two occasions tried to convince the former vice president to work with Raila even if he was not picked as a running mate, including a meeting at State House and a visit to his home.    "There were intense meetings that preceded yesterday's turn of events. Kalonzo felt like he was being demeaned by first being subjected to an interview and later being told to accept a lesser position than the one he had held in the last two polls," said an MP close to Kalonzo.  His exit leaves Azimio with the task of fighting for about 2 million votes in the lower Eastern and the Kamba votes in the diaspora.  But his departure jeopardises a mouthwatering deal that he had squeezed out of the coalition to have the Kamba community get the chief minister position, 20 per cent of Cabinet appointments and another 20 per cent of other government appointments.  Other promises included construction of 1,500km of roads, cleaning of Athi and Thwake rivers, 500km of feeder roads, and a water pipeline from Masinga Dam to serve Yatta, Masinga and Mwala.  Under the deal, the controversial Northern Collector was to be extended to serve Mavoko, Matungulu and Kangundo, while the expansion of the Mombasa Road into a dual carriageway would be extended to Konza Technopolis. Roads from Kyumbi to Machakos town and Ruai to Tala town were to be expanded.  In the Saturday meeting, Raila is said to have told Kalonzo that Mt Kenya vote was critical and that failure to placate the region with the deputy position would give Ruto easy time.  But speaking on Monday, Kalonzo said there was no going back. “For how long do people expect Kalonzo to sacrifice for others? I have done so before. We have agreed that we will go separately. As we speak, my name is with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission.”  Makueni MP Dan Maanzo said all was set for campaigns. "Kalonzo has all it takes to be the head of state. Why would he degraded?" he said.  But yesterday, a section of Ukambani leaders pleaded with the Wiper party leader to rescind his decision and back Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition.  Speaking in Machakos town, Ngilu, Governor Kivutha Kibwana of Makueni, Machakos governorship aspirant and former State House Chief of staff Nzioka Waita, among others, said Kalonzo should sacrifice for the sake of the community.  "It is a pity for the Kamba community to be out of the next government just because of an individual's interests," said Ngilu.  She said the fact that Kalonzo was not picked as the running mate was not enough to disown "an incoming government" and leave the community in the cold.  She said the coalition nominee, Martha Karua, has a reformist record and deserved the position.  "Deciding to go it alone is a clear indication that Kalonzo has no good intention for the community but to want to plunge it in poverty by being out of the next government," added Kibwana.  He said nobody in Azimio had ill-intention against Kalonzo, adding that he had been offered a plum job.  "To the best of my knowledge he has not declined the position. I believe based on the agreement with the president and Raila, they planned on appointments and development projects in the Azimio government even if someone wants to leave," he said.  Waita said Raila had offered the community a big share of the Azimio cake.  "1,500 kilometers of tarmac road plus what he was given is not a small thing and he should have taken without complaining," he said.  "To be candid, he will sway a significant vote in the region. What he will do with the votes is another thing, but he will deny Azimio a lot of presidential votes. We will, however, talk to him to change his mind."  By Gilda Naibei | 35 minutes ago By Standard Team | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 35 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 35 minutes ago