An aerial view of Kisumu town. [Titus Munala, Standard]  The government has warned hoteliers against overcharging guests during the  Africities Summit in Kisumu.  National government officials said they could consider the services of the Competition Authority and Tourism Regulatory Authority to regulate the charges following complaints of increased costs of hotels.  Devolution PS Julius Korir said the government is closely monitoring the situation and will deal with any hotel found hoarding rooms and over-charging guests.  Speaking in Kisumu town during a meeting with hoteliers, Mr Korir said most hotels in the region were doing a good job. “We have received numerous complaints from guests that some hotels are overcharging while some are hoarding rooms to hike charges.”  Mr Korir asked international firms contracted for catering, transport and other services during the summit to work closely with the local traders as well as tour operators.  Governor Anyang Nyong’o appealed to the hoteliers and service providers to give a good impression to the guests as this is a chance to “showcase the county as a tourism destination”.    He asked hoteliers to only charge the recommended rates.  Kenya Tourism Regulatory Authority official Lilian Ayimba said the organisation is rather satisfied with hoteliers’ preparations. Ms Ayimba asked hoteliers to stick to the code of conduct to avoid punitive measures.  Tourism Executive Achi Alai said hotels have recorded increased bookings. “This week we started a mini audit of Airbnb’s and homestays. The exercise which involved the Tourism department and health inspection will be concluded by May 7. We are covering a radius of up to 35 minutes from the venue,” Ms Alai said.  She added: “There will be an over-spill of guests to Kakamega, Vihiga and Siaya.” At the same time, the Africities Summit has appointed Oscar award winning Kenyan actress Lupita Nyong’o as its goodwill ambassador.  On April 15, Governor Nyong’o ordered the painting of buildings in the Central Business District (CBD) and surrounding areas with blue and white as part of the beautification programme.  By Harold Odhiambo | 4 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 21 hours ago By Harold Otieno Odhiambo | 3 days ago By Caleb Kingwara | 3 days ago