Kirinyaga was a hive of activity yesterday as residents in major towns and markets turned out to welcome Azimio la Umoja Deputy Presidential aspirant Martha Karua.  The convoy of vehicles carrying leaders was welcomed by hundreds of residents who came out to cheer Karua who could be Kenya's first female deputy president.  When the convoy entered one of Mt Kenya's smallest counties, the leaders accompanying Karua disembarked from their vehicles and walked from Sagana River Bridge to Makutano market.  Karua then boarded the Azimio La Umoja campaign truck for the start of a roadshow across the county.  There was an air of excitement as residents jostled to catch a glimpse of Karua who was headed to Makutano junction where she addressed the crowd. “This is the time when we ask ourselves what do we believe in and who can we trust with this nation,” she said during stopovers at Makutano, Mutithi, Mwea, Kutus, Kagio and Kerugoya before heading to her birthplace in Kimunye village.  The Narc-K leader paid glowing tribute to Raila Odinga's legacy of fighting for reforms and democracy in Kenya.    She said it was possible for Azimio la Umoja to win in August 9 elections in the first round because many Kenyans trust Raila and her to steer the nation after Uhuru's term ends.  Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said they were in the county to celebrate Karua's appointment as Raila’s running mate.  “We have a winning ticket with Karua and Raila. We are happy with you Karua, as you know her track record of pushing for reforms wen she was the Justice Affair minister,” he said.  Munya said with Karua’s appointment as running mate, Raila had secured enough Mt Kenya votes for a comfortable win in the elections.  Karua said that her homecoming was just the beginning of a long journey, since intensive campaigns in the region are expected to help Azimio la Umoja coalition win more votes.   "We are just planting the seeds of what we shall offer the people of Central Kenya," she said in Ngurubani.  "We shall come back to water, and later harvest the fruits of our labour."  At Kagio, she said she would not be afraid to campaign for Azimio in Mt Kenya region.  “I am one of you. You know me. I walk around this town and whoever wants to speak to me can freely reach me,” she said, adding that with Munya's support in the Azimio government, there would be prudent use of public resources to benefit the masses.  She said it was time to support one of their own and vote as a bloc.  By Gilda Naibei | 35 minutes ago By Standard Team | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 35 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 35 minutes ago