ODM has handed former Mombasa county government chief officer Innocent Mugabe a direct ticket to run for Likuyani parliamentary seat.  Mugabe, who also worked as a lecturer at the Technical University of Mombasa, was initially the running mate for ODM governorship candidate in Kakamega Fernandes Barasa but stepped down for Lugari MP Ayub Savula who was also eyeing the governor's seat.  To avoid a fallout, the Raila Odinga-led Azimio La Umoja convinced Savula to be Barasa's running mate. After clinching the ODM certificate on Wednesday,  Mugabe said changing lives through transformative leadership has always been his dream and that is what he will do if elected.  “I had a good job but I resigned early this year in my quest to serve my community. My initial plan was to work with people of Likuyani as their MP but the role of running mate in the governorship race came up. I saw it as an opportunity to further my dream on a bigger platform,” Mugabe said.  ODM then entered a pact with other like-minded parties to form Azimio-One Kenya. Mr Barasa was going head to head with Mr Savula of DAP-K in a rivalry that was threatening the unity of the Azimio coalition in Kakamega.  “They were hurling stones at each other and occasionally the stones hurt passers-by. I realised a truce could only be achieved if I gave up my running mate position. After intense discussions with my supporters, family and friends, I did exactly that albeit with a heavy heart,” said Mugabe in a statement.  Barasa thanked Mugabe for sacrificing his potential position to accommodate Mr Savula in the county government.  “Mugabe is an asset to Kakamega. His energy and intellect are so much needed here. I will involve him in running the county government even as he serves as Likuyani MP,” said Barasa.  Mugabe said the MP job is also critical because it comes with the responsibilities of representing people.  “I wish to represent the aspirations, needs and hopes of the people as well as address the challenges they face,” he said.  He also thanked Kennedy Kilwake who was the ODM parliamentary aspirant in Likuyani for his sacrifice to ensure cohesion in the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition.  By Bernard Lusigi | 3 days ago By Benard Lusigi | 5 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 5 days ago By Omelo Juliet | 8 days ago