Implementing the Competency-Based Curriculum is not an easy task, Government Spokesman Col (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna has said.  However, to be at par with the rest of the world, Mr Oguna urged Kenyans to swallow the bitter pill and embrace the curriculum introduced to phase out the 8-4-4 system.  “We must be willing to roll up our sleeves and stick our hands in the mud.” But, all is not lost, he said. Teachers have been trained to encourage parents and children to improvise the available materials to cut costs.    “Our teachers have been trained to build our children so that they can effectively compete with others globally. This will allow our children to gain enough skills and improve on their talents, giving room for discovery that will encourage them to create jobs through innovation,” Mr Oguna said. He emphasised that the co-curriculum activities will be inculcated in the system to tap the talents of learners as they move from one grade to the other.  “More indoor and outdoor sports and games will be implemented in the CBC as provided for,” the government official said yesterday during a meeting that mainly focused on education.  Mr Oguna added that learners in junior secondary schools will be trained on how to accommodate both the young and the old.  “Students transitioning to Junior High School under the Competency-Based Curriculum will study in day schools and not boarding schools. The Junior High Schools will however be domiciled in existing secondary schools and not primary schools.”  The spokesman further noted that the government has rolled out training for teachers which started on April 25 and will end on Friday.  “Training of teachers will enable them to manage Grade 5 students transitioning to Junior High in January 2023. By the end of the year we will have trained more than 60,000 teachers,” he said.  On double intake, Mr Oguna said by the end of next year the government is planning to have 20,044 classes and provide IT devices in schools.  Ms Anne Ngatia, the coordinator of CBC at the Kenya National Examination Council, said the new curriculum is designed to equip learners with skills in communication, critical thinking, creativity, as well as digital literacy among others.  By Stephen Rutto | 19 hours ago By Standard Team | 20 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Nikko Tanui | 2 days ago