After the tragic event of the shooting that resulted in the death of veteran Al Jazeera journalist Shireen Abu Akleh in Jenin earlier this month, there have been many opinion articles and comments on the social media stating false news and incorrect facts.  Some, like the one by Mr Hassan Malik in The Standard on May 26, reveal their blunt ignorance of the region as they maliciously twist facts in a bid to support anti-Israeli narratives. The public has a right to be presented with the truth instead of being fed with lies and propaganda.  Starting with the tragic event of the shooting that resulted in the journalist’s death, there are no facts to support the execution claim. In fact, Israel stands out in the Middle East for its strong support of freedom of speech as part of its thriving democracy.  Israel has promised that an objective joint investigation of the shooting, under strict American supervision, will take place to establish the truth.  Israel, being objective and realistic, has acknowledged the possibility that the reporter, could have been hit accidentally hit by either the Palestinian or the Israeli side. However, without a joint and objective investigation, there can be no conclusions. The Palestinians, have refused to hand over the bullet that killed Shireen and thus are withholding the only scientific evidence that can lead to a conclusion on which side is responsible for the shooting.  Instead of cooperating in order to reveal the truth, the Palestinians have decided to play the roles of the investigators, prosecutors and judges by not only stating as a fact that the bullet was shot from the Israeli side, but also declaring the shooting a deliberate execution done by Israeli soldiers. Those who have nothing to hide do not conceal.  The Palestinians' refusal for a joint investigation with Israel under American inspection speaks for itself. The Palestinians announcement that this was a deliberate execution by an Israeli soldier is nothing more than bogus accusations with  the aim of spreading more lies and demonising Israel.  Prior to the incident, Israel had suffered a growing wave of terror attacks against civilians in the cities of Jerusalem, Tel-Aviv, Bnei-Brak, Hadera, Beer-Sheva and more. Those Attacks resulted in the murder of 19 innocent Israeli civilians and many more injured. All were brutally murdered by terrorists just for being Israeli citizens.  The terrorists, while planning and operating their attacks deliberately target innocent civilians - people eating in restaurants or drinking in bars of Tel-Aviv, women shopping for clothes, a father playing with his son. Due to these attacks, the Israeli military launched an operation to capture terror nests operating from the refugee camp of Jenin.  Finally, regarding the accusations of apartheid, we would like to point out that Jenin is under the control of the Palestinian authority and not Israel. Israel therefore, cannot rule in Jenin and any comparison to the atrocities of the apartheid regime in South Africa against its own civilians are not only irrelevant but a show pure ignorance.  Alliance For Israel is an Umbrella body of different organisations in Kenya that stand with and support Israel. kenyafriendsofisrael@gmail.com  By Patricia Kombo | 3 hours ago By Babere Kerata Chacha | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Wilson Sossion | 1 day ago