Kenya registered an impressive 7.5 per cent growth last year, despite the devastating effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and a slumping global economy.  The Economic Survey 2022 indicates that the national cake was valued at Sh12.1 trillion in 2021 compared to Sh10.8 trillion in 2020.  The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics publishes the survey annually to provide social-economic information covering a five-year period. While 2020 saw the country registering negative growth at 0.3 per cent, Kenyans’ resilience was a short in the arm for an economy that bled millions of jobs and income generating activities at the height of Covid-19.  Enterprising Kenyans picked up the pieces and faced whatever challenges on their way including high cost of living, high food prices, high fuel costs and erratic rains. Indeed, agriculture registered a decline from 5.2 per cent growth in 2020 to 0.2 per cent last year. This means majority of farmers’ earnings dwindled. And just when Covid-19 seemed to ease its vice-like grip on the world economy, Russia invaded Ukraine, occasioning shortage of fuel and several food items across the globe.  The same survey does not inspire a lot of confidence for this year. With the ongoing inadequate rainfall, farmers will need more government support to produce enough food to feed the country and make profits for themselves. Ongoing measures to combat climate change and global warming must be stepped up urgently. For an economy heavily reliant on agriculture like ours, the national and county governments must invest more resources for a positive outlook and creation of jobs and opportunities.  The other challenge is the General Election happening in exactly 95 days from today. Kenyan electioneering cycle always dents economic growth due to cut throat competition for the over 3,100 seats up for grabs right from the Member of County Assembly to the President. The campaigns are always heated and nearly bring business to a standstill. Kenya’s fifth president will take over at a time majority of Kenyan pockets are empty amid a hopeless economic outlook. The top presidential contenders must come up with elaborate manifestoes and viable means of putting money back into ordinary man’s purse. It has been a difficult period for all Kenyans. How the new president and new team motivate and put hope in them will determine a lot the country’s growth trajectory in the next five years.  By Susan Mochache | 2 hours ago By Lynet Otieno | 2 hours ago By Kamotho Waiganjo | 2 hours ago By Ken Opalo | 2 hours ago