Police in Ndeiya, Kiambu County, have arrested a man accused of killing his estranged wife.  Samuel Mbugua, 26, is said to have travelled 52km from Ndeiya to Rongai in Kajiado County, where his wife Faith Njambi lived, stabbed her twice and left her for dead.  Njambi, 24, would later crawl out of her room to the door, desperately looking for help. Neighbours noticed her and rushed her to a hospital in Rongai from where she was transferred to Nairobi Hospital where she died while undergoing treatment.  After allegedly committing the crime, Mbugua is said to have called Njambi's elder brother, Stephen Kamanu, asking to meet him in Nairobi.  Kamanu, however, declined the invitation since they had not been in good terms, following the troubled marriage between Mbugua and his sister.  Kamanu later received a text message from Mbugua, saying, “Wait for breaking news, it will be sad for you and my entire family.”  “Mimi nishachoka, nimekua nikiongea lakini najipata najiongelesha na vile (Faith) ameniambia hana haja na mimi na pia siezi kaa kuona na kusikia my son Jason anateseka heri nikufe na yeye,” another text message read.  Meanwhile, at Nairobi Hospital, Njambi's neighbours called her father who arrived at the facility to find his daughter dead.  Mbugua and Njambi were neighbours in Ndiuni village and members of the Kenya Assemblies of God where Njambi's father is a senior pastor.  The two met last year after Njambi's graduation from college, fell in love and married. However, after living together for a short time, neighbours said the marriage started having trouble and Njambi separated from her husband and moved to Rongai where she worked as an accountant in a supermarket.  On Facebook, after Njambi's death, Mbugua had threatened to commit suicide.  He posted, "It is always sad, heartfelt to say good bye to someone you love I say good bye to you all my friends and family, nitawamiss sana tutaonana tena. God will always protect you and provide for you till we meet again I loved you."  It is this Facebook post and text messages that jolted the police to start hunting for Mbugua, whose phone had been switched off by that time.  Officers from Ndeiya Police Station and Ndiuni Police Post were alerted in the dead of the night that Mbugua had been seen trying to sneak in to his compound in Ndiuni.  The officers laid a trap at his parents' compound and at about 1am Mbugua sneaked in and went to bed in his house.  The heavily armed officers then stormed into the house, arrested Mbugua and took him to Tigoni Police Station.  He was later moved to Rongai Police Station from he will be arraigned.  By Ndung’u Gachane | 10 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u and Nderitu Gichure | 2 days ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 2 days ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 2 days ago