Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula was among politicians cleared by the electoral commission to run for the Bungoma Senate seat.  Senator Wetang’ula defended his decision to contest moments after he got the green light from the county Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) coordinator Grace Rono in Bungoma yesterday.  Wetang’ula said he was comfortable with the Senate seat, arguing that what he is fighting for within the Kenya Kwanza will benefit the region.  His critics, including Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa, have claimed the senator’s decision to defend the seat could be a clear indication that he (Wetang’ula) does not believe Kenya Kwanza will win on August 9.  Wamalwa argued that Wetang’ula should have waited to be appointed Speaker of the National Assembly as promised by Kenya Kwanza leaders William Ruto if elected President. But Wetang’ula hit back: “I am satisfied with my Senate seat. The positions we are pushing for are meant for our people.” According to Wetang’ula, out of the 22 Cabinet slots, six will be reserved for Ford Kenya and ANC. “This will apply even in the distribution of ambassadorial positions and heads of parastatals,” said Wetang’ula (pictured).  He insisted he was not interesting in personal gain and urged residents of Bungoma to vote for him and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka as senator and governor, respectively.  “We are telling our people that we have been tried and tested and we have their interest at heart,” said the senator.  Wetang’ula told the Luhya community to back the Kenya Kwanza alliance, saying the region stands to benefit if Ruto forms the next government.  He claimed CS Wamalwa had been left out of Azimio flagbearer Raila Odinga’s Cabinet line-up that saw Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende given positions.  Raila, however, said at the weekend that Wamalwa will be part of the his government should he win. “Let them tell us what their stake in Azimio la Umoja is before criticising our deal in Kenya kwanza,” argued Wetang’ula.  Lusaka, who escorted Wetang’ula to the IEBC offices, said Azimio la Umoja should brace for a bruising battle.  “We will fight them in the air, sea and land,” said Lusaka. He called on the people of Western to embrace peace during the campaign period.  By Bernard Lusigi | 13 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 19 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 1 day ago By Omelo Juliet | 2 days ago