Rongai MP Raymond Moi has called on Kenyans to exercise caution during voting in the August 9 General Election.  Raymond, who spoke while issuing bursary cheques worth over Sh10.8 million to his constituents yesterday, urged voters to interrogate candidates and not the parties they are vying on.  He lashed out at those calling for election of leaders from a specific party, noting that it was the individuals who will serve the country and not political parties.  “Some people are saying elect Jubilee or Kanu only. If you re-elect me, it is I who will work for you, not the party. Track record and character of a leader should take precedence,” said Raymond.  The MP, who is defending his parliamentary seat on a Kanu ticket, said bad leaders often hide behind the six-piece voting model due to lack of clear policies to sell to the electorate. “If a leader asks you to vote for a particular party, demand to know their personal agenda. Most probably, they don’t have anything of their own and are capitalising on party popularity,” he said.    The legislator urged the electorate not to be moved by political euphoria that has in the past left them stuck with non-performing leaders, leading to a wasted election cycle.  "Elect leaders committed to taking care of your interests. If you elect people who don’t know what they are supposed to do, development will lag behind," he said.   Yesterday’s meeting was Raymond’s first public appearance since he contracted Covid-19 in December last year.  “It is unfortunate that my competitors have been saying that I am critically ill and on a wheelchair. That was never true. God does things in His own unique way,” said Raymond.  Citing the progress made in the constituency since his election, Raymond urged the residents to re-elect him and vote in persons of integrity for prudent use of their funds.   “My development record is not on paper but on the ground. The funds I receive from the national government is almost equal to what my predecessors had but didn’t achieve as much as I have done,” he said.  Raymond later broke the grounds for a Sh8 million dining hall project at Mema Secondary.     By Josphat Thiong’o | 1 hour ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 20 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 21 hours ago