A section of patients at Murang'a County Referral Hospital awaiting treatment in 2020 [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Baringo residents are up in arms over the poor state of health facilities. Through an online petition, they want the Ministry of Health and the anti-corruption commission to investigate how money allocated to the health sector in the county since 2013 was spent.  While it is the work of concerned authorities to probe the allegations, it is not a secret that Baringo and many other county governments have failed to deliver the dream of quality health services as envisioned by the devolved system of government.  If there is one area that majority of the county governments have failed terribly, it is the provision of quality health services.  Many county health facilities are poorly equipped and staffed. They lack a steady supply of medicines and other medical supplies. In addition, the health workers are poorly remunerated and sometimes go for months without pay. This, inevitably, leads to work boycotts by the health workers, leaving patients to their own devices.  During the 10 years of devolution, we have witnessed protests by health workers demanding better for themselves and their clients in virtually all counties. Needless to say, many patients have lost their lives as a result. But despite the protests, nothing much has changed.  This has made many people wonder whether the devolution of health was rushed or even whether it was necessary at all.  We cannot continue like this. The next government must learn from the mistakes of the past 10 years, and bring lasting change to the health sector.  The next county governments must up their game and put the lives of Kenyans first by ensuring that the health sector works without hiccups. If they can't the national government should take charge of the sector.  A devolved health function that breeds suffering and death is not worth it.  By Editorial | 35 minutes ago By Doris Kathia | 35 minutes ago By Asande Felix Makori | 35 minutes ago By Peter Wafula Murumba | 8 hours ago