Robert Onduko and his son Pharrell Onduko. The two died in a road accident along Nakuru-Eldoret Highway. [Eric Abuga, Standard]  A father and his son who perished in a grisly road accident at Ngata in Nakuru will be buried today in Nyaronge, Nyamira County.  Robert Onduko Mayieka, 42, was a Kisii High School alumni and civil engineer, as well as a renowned businessman in Kisii town. He also operated a beauty parlour - Comfort Salon and Barbershop - which he ran with his wife.  Onduko died on the spot in the Nakuru accident, while his son Pharrell Onduko succumbed on arrival at a nearby hospital.  The accident occurred barely hours after the family had dropped their first born daughter, Avril Tecky, to Kabarak Boarding Primary School. Onduko’s wife, Syprose Kerubo, who was also in the car, survived the accident. Grief and sorrow engulfed Kisii town following the news of Onduko and his son’s death. Onduko was a team member and assistant manager of the Kisii Football Club.  For his passion in the building and construction industry, Onduko ran Alvan Holdings Limited, a company that has undertaken a number of projects in Kisii and Nyamira counties.  In 2009, he became a director of the famous Gesima Farmers Limited, which owns the iconic Falcon property in Kisii where Kenya Shell operates from. The company; co-run by lawyer George Morara Akuma, also owns Flamingo Building, Gesima Centre and Nyamira Centre. Mr Morara described the deceased as an honest and hardworking man.  “He was always accurate in everything that he was doing. Soft-spoken but strict,” said Mr Morara.  Onduko’s wife, Ms Kerubo, said she was grateful for the years she lived with him.  “I have lost a limb, the world feels dark, our house is incredibly cold and way too quiet,” she said. Ms Kerubo also mourned her only son, describing him as a true reflection of hope.  “The pain is way too much to handle. These moments are awkward and lonely; the most painful period in my life. My son was everything,” she said.  Tributes flowed on social media following news of the accident, which family and friends described as unfortunate.  The late Onduko’s friend, Joshua Nyabengi, mourned the deceased saying; “Very devastating, I can’t believe it. Robert is my good friend. I took care of him in High School and since then we have been good friends.”  Pharrell Onduko, a Grade Two pupil at Fairmonts International School (FIS) Kisii, was described as a disciplined child who loved playing with his peers.  A statement from the school read: “Nothing ever prepared us for this moment and we humbly pray for grace through this difficult time. In our eyes, we see how Pharrell would always arrive in school, vibrant, with a very beautiful smile and his signature morning greeting.”  It continued: “We see our last moments in the holiday camp, taking many photos together not knowing they would be our last. Our dear departed, we cherish you and mourn you but do believe that your beautiful spirits live on. You will forever remain in our hearts and the FIS legacy.”  A teacher at the school, Annet Nyaboga said: “Further along, we’ll know all about it. Further along, we’ll understand why. This is indeed a very painful moment for the FIS Family.”  By Harold Otieno Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Caleb Kingwara | 2 days ago By Caleb Kingwara | 3 days ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 days ago