Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo at Redeemed Gospel Church, Liberty Christian Centre in Nairobi during a service on Sunday, January 9, 2022 [David Njaaga, Standard]  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has threatened to quit the Kenya Kwanza Alliance over the leaked power-sharing deal.  Kabogo’s threats come after details emerged on how parties in Kenya Kwanza coalition are set to share political power.  According to Kabogo, the Mt Kenya region feels it has been short changed by the DP.  A coalition agreement between Dr Ruto's UDA, Musalia Mudavadi' ANC and Moses Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya was filed with the Registrar of Political Parties on Sunday. In the deal, Mudavadi will take up the position of Prime Cabinet Secretary.  Mudavadi’s ANC will also propose several Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries and ambassadors, taking up 30 per cent of government, alongside Wetangula’s Ford Kenya.  Wetang'ula, as per the agreement, will be proposed as speaker of the National Assembly.    Kabogo revisited a trip to Dubai with the DP in which he said they discussed how if elected Ruto would empower Kenyans.  “We discussed a few things, I told him I wasn’t looking for any position but we discussed that his government ensures that resources are distributed equitably especially in Mt. Kenya region through the one man one-shilling revenue sharing formula," he said while addressing Thika residents.  The former county chief said the expanded Executive proposal that seeks to introduce the Prime Cabinet Secretary position was not part of his agreement with Ruto.  “I never saw that being factored in the agreement deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties,” he said.  Kabogo said after the agreement was deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties, he called Ruto to explain the document.  "I told him that I have seen you have highlighted how you will share seats in the Executive; with Mudavadi and Wetang'ula occupying 30 per cent of government. I stated to him that, on my end, I didn't want even one per cent of the Executive seats," said Kabogo.  He added: "However, I insisted that the people of Mt. Kenya must benefit from his government. I further told him that if he won’t commit to such an arrangement, we will ditch the (Kenya Kwanza) coalition, even if only ten of us agree to leave. And, thereafter, Kenyans will know what I had seen that necessitated my exit from Kenya Kwanza.”  Other Mt Kenya parties that belong to Kenya Kwanza are National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi's Democratic Party, Chama Cha Kazi of Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and The Service Party of Kenya of Mwangi Kiunjuri.  By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago