The Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has cleared several politicians eyeing elective seats in the August 9 polls in Vihiga county.  On Sunday, the electoral agency cleared those seeking parliamentary, senator and MCA seats at Chavakali High school.  County IEBC returning officer Peter Tivo took charge of the clearance process for the 17 aspirants eyeing senator seats.   First to be cleared was Amani National Congress (ANC) aspirant Kennedy Butiko.  The politician and 16 others are seeking to succeed incumbent George Khaniri who is eyeing Vihiga governor seat on UDP ticket.  "We are happy to have been cleared today by IEBC, next is we go on the ground and peacefully seek votes from people of Vihiga, " said Butiko.  Also cleared was Leonard Ongadi of DAP-K party who is also contesting for the Senate.  "Getting the clearance means we are good to go, all I want is to see peaceful campaigns and respect from our competitors," said Ongadi.  Kennedy Imbuki of MDG party had a hard time getting clearance after the IEBC system failed for over an hour.  The process was halted for some hours as the IEBC officials tried to have the internet fixed following the technical hitch.  Others who were given the green light by the electoral agency are Emmanuel Ayodi and Hudson Andambi who are both in Sabatia constituency parliamentary race.  The seat has attracted 12 aspirants keen to succeed outgoing MP Alfred Agoi who is going for the governor seat.  "The race is on after we were cleared, it's time to campaign and win this seat on August 9," said Ayodi.  According to the general election regulations gazetted on January 20, the clearance of aspirants will run from May 29 to June 7.  All the candidates were required to show if they were public officers, resign from office, and present the identification document used to register as a voter according to Election (General) Regulations 2012 among other requirements.  "The process is going on in the entire county and we will ensure each one of the aspirants gets time to present their papers in a friendly environment as required," said Tiyo.​  By Robert Amalemba | 23 hours ago By Omelo Juliet | 1 day ago By Obare Osinde and Martin Ndiema | 1 day ago By John Shilitsa and Eric Abuga | 2 days ago