Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition has unveiled 16 groups that will lead its campaigns across the country.  With less than 80 days to the August 9 General Election, the Raila Odinga presidential campaign team has divided itself based on regions and special groups to secure votes for the Raila-Karua ticket. The coalition says the teams will hit the ground this week.  The team will be led by Odinga, the presidential candidate alongside his running mate, Martha Karua. The duo will lead the national campaigns team.  Others who will be part of the national campaign team are Suna MP Junet Mohammed, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Nyeri DG Carol Karugu, Phillip Pande, Mishi Mboko, and Opiyo Wandayi, Richard Onyonka, Babu Owino, Caleb Amisi, Maina Kamanda and Kieni MP Kanini Kega.  Women leaders hunting for votes on behalf of the coalition have been divided into three, including Maendeleo ya Wanawake. The women will be led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga and Maendeleo ya wanawake’s Rahab Mwilu.  Other women who will help the coalition solicit votes are Beatrice Elachi, Rachel Shebesh, Rosa Buyu, Beatrice Askul, Fatuma Gedi, Judy Pareno, Jerusha Mong’ina, and Naisula Lesuuda, Naomi Shabban, Florence Mwangangi and Janet Ongera.  The coalition has also included the young people in its campaign trail and divided them into two groups led by IG Ngugi and Philip Pande.  Other young people tasked with getting votes for the former prime minister’s presidential bid are Hezena Lemeyatian, Dennis Mbada, Alex Matere, Ivy Muchoki, Antony Manyara, Advice Mundaro, Solomon Kuria, Charles Dienya, Janet Ruthuku, Leah Thanji, Irene Kendi, Dennis Njeru, James Mwangi, Evelyne Timpiyian, John Ketora Benson Odako and Sasha Wamae.  Another team led by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Wamalwa will lead in getting the Western votes to the Azmio-One Kenya coalition’s favour.  The team will comprise Wafula Wamunyinyi, David Eseli, George Khaniri, Ayub Savula, Caleb Amisi, Wafula Wamunyinyi, and David Eseli, George Natembeya, Caleb Amisi, Emmanuel Wangwe, Sospeter Ojaamong, Wycliffe Wangamati, Wilber Otichillo, Paul Otuoma, Florence Mutua and Geoffrey Osotsi.  Odinga’s campaign team has also deployed a team to Deputy President William Ruto’s backyard, Rift Valley, led by former ambassador Stephen Tarus alongside Joshua Kuttiny, Samuel Poghisio and Nick Salat among others.  In the Coastal region, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has been given the responsibility to garner votes for his party leader in the upcoming polls.  His team will have Granton Samboja, Suleiman Shabhal, Gideon Mung’aro, Joyce Lay and others.  In the capital, Nairobi, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and former Woman Representative Rachael Shebesh will lead Polycarp Igathe, Edwin Sifuna, Esther Passaris and other Azimio aspirants in getting votes for Raila Odinga’s presidency.  In the Ukambani region, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana will work together with all other Azimio aspirants to campaign for Odinga.  Kajiado Governor Joseph Ole Lenku will lead the campaigns in Maa region together with a team of Azimio aspirants in the region.  In Central, CS Peter Munya, Sabina Chege and Governor Lee Kinyanjui will lead the region in hunting for votes.  Treasury CS Ukur Yattani and Feisal Abbas will lead campaigns in Wajir, Garissa, Mandera, Isiolo and Marsabit.  Governor James Ongwae, John Mbadi and Simba Arati will lead all aspirants from the coalition in the region, which is considered Odinga’s stronghold to get him votes.  By Ndungu Gachane | 10 minutes ago By Jacob Ng’etich and Erastus Mulwa | 10 minutes ago By Nathan Ochunge | 12 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 15 minutes ago