Rongai MP Raymond Moi was among politicians cleared to contest for parliamentary seats in the South Rift counties.  He was cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to defend the seat on a Kanu party ticket, bringing to end speculation that he may not defend his seat in the coming polls due to health concerns which he said he has overcome.  “Those who thought that I will not be on the ballot are wrong. I have been cleared and energetic enough to start my campaigns immediately. My track record speaks for me,” said Raymond.    He called on his competitors to conduct campaigns peacefully saying that the interest of the electorates should come first. “We must conduct ourselves with decorum knowing that the country is bigger than any of us. Peace and unity must prevail with respect to our various diversities,” said Raymond.  Also cleared was Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat who is vying for the Bomet East parliamentary seat on the party ticket.  Salat said the coming polls were a chance for locals to change their leadership and asked voters to seize the opportunity salat failure by the area leadership calls for change.  He however called for locals to embrace peace during the campaigns, saying the election will be a one-day event.  National Assembly Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi was also cleared to defend his Kuresoi North Parliamentary seat as an independent candidate. Cheboi lost in the UDA party nominations.  His Jubilee Party competitor Joel Ayieni was scheduled to be cleared for the seat in the afternoon.  “I believe the people of Kuresoi will not look at the party but what I have done for them in the terms I have been in office. I was rigged out in the nominations but I have confidence in the IEBC,” said Cheboi.  In the neighbouring south constituency, the incumbent Joseph Tonui of UDA and Peter Cheruiyot of Jubilee Party were also given the nod to contest in the August 9 general election.  Former Naivasha MP John Mututho who is the ODM candidate for the Nakuru senate seat was also cleared and so was Keroche Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Tabitha Karanja of UDA party.  Former Trade and Industrialization Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Lawrence Karanja was also cleared to contest the seat on a Jubilee Party ticket.  Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri of UDA and his competitor Irene Njoki of Jubilee were cleared to battle it out for the Bahati parliamentary seat. John Quindos, an independent candidate was scheduled to be cleared yesterday.  Sotik MP Domnic Koskei was given the node to defend the seat as an independent candidate while Ambassador Francis Sigei will challenge him with a UDA ticket.  In Konoin constituency Brighton Yegon was cleared to run on UDA ticket while Sammy Koech was cleared to contest as an independent candidate.  In Bomet central, Richard Kilel will be flying the UDA party flag after receiving clearance. Collins Ngetich of CCM party was also given the node to challenge him at the polls.  In Chepalungu constituency, CCM's Victor Koech and UDA's Paul Bii received clearance before IEBC at Sigor trading centre.  Senate Aspirants Hillary Sigei(UDA) and Wesley Korir(ANC) were also cleared in a day that saw a beehive of activities at IEBC offices across the county.  Belgut MP Nelson Koech and his  Kipkelion East counterpart Joseph Cherotot were cleared to defend their seats on the UDA party ticket.  Stories by Kennedy Gachuhi, Gilbert Kimutai and Nikko Tanui  By Julius Chepkwony | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Christopher Kipsang and Obare Osinde | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago