Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe lifted Covid-19 restrictions in March this year. The mandatory wearing of masks and ban on gatherings were relaxed. This followed a significant drop in the Covid-19 prevalence rate. The World Health Organisation set the safety threshold at five per cent.  Yet even though the restrictions were lifted, Kagwe advised Kenyans to exercise care and warned that the country was not yet out of the woods. By last month, the prevalence rate had dropped to below three per cent according to statistics from the Ministry of Health.  However, there has been an alarming rise in the positivity rate. By yesterday, the rate was at 5.6 per cent, up from below three per cent barely two weeks ago. We all must therefore take precautions without being coaxed to do so by the government.  A spike in Covid-19 cases is the last thing Kenyans want, especially after the bad experiences we went through in 2020, through to early this year. Job losses, company closures, the collapse of small businesses, lockdowns and curfews are things we should steer clear of by consciously keeping Covid-19 at bay.  To achieve that, personal responsibility must be brought to bear. We are in the midst of an intense campaign period during which politicians will continually gather crowds in their pursuit of votes. These gatherings could act like super-spreaders of the virus, hence should be shunned. Another long closure of schools is something we can't afford. School principals should therefore be on the forefront ensuring safety of students while in school. Wearing of masks, hand washing and keeping social distance should be observed.  On the whole, Kenyans, including those who have already taken the Covi-19 jab, should go back to observing safety measures as prescribed. A large population is at risk since only 18.1 million of the nearly 50 million Kenyans have so far been vaccinated against Covid-19. Vaccination should be stepped up across the country.  By Wilson Sossion | 13 hours ago By Andrew Kipkemboi | 13 hours ago By Maniza Zaman | 13 hours ago By David Oginde | 1 day ago