Grassroots Wiper leaders from the Ukambani region have appealed to party leader Kalonzo Musyoka to review his political stand and return to Azimio for the sake of the community.  At a press conference in Machakos town on Friday, the leaders who comprised youth league representatives drawn from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui counties pleaded with Kalonzo to accept the offer he was given and do so for the sake of his community.     Led by the group’s secretary Mr Joseph Mulwa, the leaders told Kalonzo to swallow his pride and sacrifice for the many if he truly represented the interest of his people.  “We believe Kalonzo Musyoka was not in Azimio for his own sake but for us, hence, he should  accept the slot he was given as it aimed to benefit Ukambani entirely and not himself alone,” said Mulwa. The leaders wondered how Kalonzo would assist the community by going it alone as his bid was in vain.  “We are satisfied with the share for Kamba community from Azimio and Kalonzo should not hesitate taking it,” added Mulwa.  The leaders who are staunch supporters of  Wiper party and Kalonzo himself however vowed to remain in Azimio .  The leaders took issue with some politicians surrounding Kalonzo who they claimed were not advising him properly but swayed him for their own gains at the expense of the community.  And in Nairobi, members of the clergy from lower Eastern region also appealed to Kalonzo to consider rejoining Azimio.  Under the umbrella of The House Clergy Association of Kenya the clerics from Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties appealed to Kalonzo to swallow his presidential ambition and join hands with Raila Odinga who is the Azimio presidential flag bearer.   While acknowledging the role he played in the last three regimes, the prelates led by Cathedral of Praise Archbishop John Obonyo said his long service in the government cannot be taken for granted.  “Kalonzo has worked quietly under President Uhuru Kenyatta as the peace envoy for South Sudan, where he helped South Sudan to achieve peace and stability. The above is evidence that Kalonzo is a very valuable asset to the Republic of Kenya. He has proven his worth over the years,” said Obonyo yesterday at a press conference.  By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 hour ago By Abdimalik Ismail Hajir | 7 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 11 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 12 hours ago