ODM candidates in Homa Bay got a boost after more than 150 aspirants who lost in party primaries resolved to support them.  A number of aspirants who vied for the ward, parliamentary and woman rep seats in the nominations had been disgruntled after they lost in the nominations on April 14.  The resolve came after the intervention of governor aspirant Gladys Wanga and her running mate Oyugi Magwanga.   The losers agreed to end their rebellion and will now work with their opponents.  At a meeting held at a Homa Bay Hotel on Sunday the aspirants agreed to support their competitors who secured ODM tickets in the party primaries.  The nomination losers’ resolution was read by Kibiri MCA aspirant Isaiah Opapa who said they will work with the winners.  "We have agreed to support those who won in the nomination. We will also support and implement the decisions of the party,” Opapa said.  The team will also marshal support for ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid and the party gubernatorial candidate Gladys Wanga.  “We want to spread the gospel of Wanga’s candidature because Homa Bay should have a governor who will bring change," he added.  He said they will collaborate with the ODM candidates beyond the August 9 General election.  Suba South Parliamentary aspirant Evans Marieba said party primaries had come and gone and so they will now focus on how the party can get seats.  “Party primaries is an event of the past and everyone should now focus on the journey ahead of us,” Marieba said.   He urged politicians to shun hatred during their campaigns.  He urged local politicians to focus on Odinga's presidency.   "Let us focus on Odinga and shun any form of violence," he added.  Florence Ouma who aspired for the Woman rep post called on other politicians who contested and lost to join them.  “Not all leaders aspiring for a seat through ODM party can have the ticket as ago. Let those who lost calm down and join this team to enable us to move together,” Ouma said.   The emergence of independent candidates for various seats is threatening some ODM candidates in their respective seats.   Wanga expressed optimism that the move will enable ODM to clinch many seats in the election.  “All we want is victory and I thank our aspirants for accepting to work with us. Their support has a lot of impact in our aspiration for various seats through ODM ticket,” Wanga said.  By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 23 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 days ago