Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Garissa Township MP Aden Duale has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to move with speed and appoint the Secretary to the Cabinet.  Speaking at NEP Girls High School yesterday where he issued bursary cheques totalling Sh40 million, Duale said the Assumption of the Office of the President Act no 21 of 2012 clearly defines the role of Secretary to the Cabinet.  The committee, which is chaired by Secretary to the Cabinet, is mandated under the provision of section 6 to facilitate the handing over process by the outgoing president to the president-elect, the provision of security detail and security briefings to the president-elect among other key functions.  Duale regretted that the President has failed to appoint the holder of office since 2014, noting that it is a matter that should worry all Kenyans since Parliament is set to dissolve in a few days. In 2014 when Duale was the Leader of Majority, Uhuru forwarded the name of Monica Juma to the House for vetting and subsequent approval. However, she was rejected and no other name has been brought forward since.   Duale who on May 14, 2022, sought a statement from the Chairperson of the Departmental Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs further hit out at Joseph Kinyua, the Head of Public Service for taking over the role.  "Your excellency you are going for your retirement in two months and the chairman for that committee is missing. Unfortunately, Head of Public Service Mr Kinyua wrote to me the other day, saying that he is acting as Secretary to the Cabinet. I want to tell him that he should read article 154 of the Constitution," said the MP.  Duale said Mr Kinyua has no constitutional mandate to act as the Secretary to the Cabinet, adding the President is breaking the law on delayed appointment.   A person nominated for the position of the Secretary to the Cabinet must be approved by Parliament under Article 154 of the Constitution.  With Parliament set for dissolution and no signs of appointment, Duale expressed disappointment the assumption process of the next president might be in jeopardy.    Duale also took time to drum up support for UDA Party, exuding confidence that they will form the next government.   By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 hour ago By Oscar Obonyo | 11 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 12 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 12 hours ago