Two independent candidates vying for parliamentary seats in Mombasa county were among the first to be cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) in Mombasa county today.  Former Kenya Electricity Generating Company (Kengen ) Supply Chain Management Manager, Abdulrahim Ramadhan Kajembe,34, alias Kimkim was cleared to contest for the Jomvu parliamentary seat as an Independent candidate.  He is the son of the late Assistant Minister, Ramadhan Seif Kajembe who was an MP for Changamwe before it was split into two to give rise to Jomvu.    He is now set to do battle with his brother in law and incumbent Badi Twalib in the August 9 election. ''I am relieved after this strenuous exercise. I wish to salute my campaign team, supporters and my immediate family for standing by me as I start this journey of bringing real and faster development to the great people of Jomvu,'' Kajembe Jnr said.  Abdulrahman whose party symbol is a Bulldozer jumped ship at the eleventh hour after ODM  handed over a direct ticket to Badi.  ''I would not have been in this situation if it were not for ODM tricks that denied me an opportunity to be their candidate of choice,'' he said.  He was escorted by an army of supporters from his home which is a few minutes from the Mikindani Social Hall, the venue where party nominees are presenting their papers to IEBC.  He pledged to ensure equitable use of resources meant to bolster development in Jomvu and help alleviate poverty through job creation for the jobless.   At the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) Mombasa campus in Bamburi, Nyali constituency, logistic and transport expert, Mr Eric Gitonga was cleared by the Nyali constituency IEBC Returning Officer (RO) John Ole Taiswa to run for Nyali seat as an Independent candidate.  Gitonga, former Kenya International Freight, Warehousing Forwarders Association (KIFWA) chairman was upbeat after being handed over the clearance certificate.  ''Today is a great day for the people of Nyali. I am going to be the change you all aspire to have in servant leadership,'' he said.  He said that he will strive to ensure that Nyali which is home to a number of star-rated tourist hotels remains a peaceful holiday destination and that tourism thrives and benefits the people living in the area.  ''I have a complete manifesto that among others will champion for improvement of education, poverty eradication through support to small and medium enterprises, revamping of drainage and solid waste, investment in sports and talent growth, strengthening of governance and improved health facility coverage and quality,'' he said.  Nyali MP, Mohamed Ali who went to parliament as an independent candidate will be flying the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket as he attempts to regain his seat.  He will be coming up against ODM nominee Said Abdalah Saidoo who is trying his second bid to capture the Nyali seat after a failed attempt during the last general elections.  More aspirants will be seeking clearance tomorrow.  By Patrick Beja | 15 hours ago By Bernard Sanga | 18 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 1 day ago By Bernard Sanga | 2 days ago