Politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto have urged Wiper party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka to quit Azimio la Umoja One Kenya, claiming that he is not appreciated in the outfit.  They said the alleged humiliation of Kalonzo during the burial of the former President Mwai Kibaki where he was denied the opportunity to address the mourners pointed to the possibility that he (Kalonzo) will not be honoured with the running mate position.   Addressing mourners at the burial of the late Janet Muthoki, who was a daughter to UDA chairman Johnstone Muthama, at his Tala home in Machakos county, yesterday, the leaders, led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen implored the Akamba community to rally behind Ruto’s presidential bid, saying he was the ideal candidate to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.    "Kalonzo is my friend and I have even worked for him before. But I want to tell him the kind of contempt that he was subjected to in Othaya was quite humiliating. It was disgusting how Raila and Uhuru gave him an impersonal handshake during the Kibaki funeral ceremony. I asked myself, is this person going to be somebody’s running mate?” Mr Murkomen posed The senator argued that the proposal by Azimio to subject Kalonzo to vetting to determine his suitability for the running mate position amounts to utter disrespect.  "My message to Kalonzo and those others remaining in Azimio is that the kind of contempt that Uhuru meted on Ruto even to the extent of technically divorcing him from the Government since the onset of handshake will be directed to them, and it will not be too long before Kalonzo is thrown out of the Azimio axis,” claimed Mr Murkomen.  The senator said Kenya Kwanza and its leadership believe the Wiper leader has a huge contribution to make in the leadership of this country and was welcome to work with the DP’s team.  His sentiments were echoed by Machakos Town MP, Victor Munyaka, who said the Akamba community cannot stomach the disrespect directed at Kalonzo by other leaders in Azimio.  "Kalonzo Musyoka has been embarrassed in many circumstances. After being a successful running mate to Raila twice, he is now being asked to go through a vetting panel to be evaluated for the same position and we find that disrespectful and totally unacceptable," said Dr Munyaka.  The MP wondered if Raila went through a selection panel to qualify to be the Azimio presidential candidate.  Dr Munyaka argued that the Wiper leader having been Kibaki's Vice President, he required no further interrogation over his suitability to be the country’s second in command.  "We are politely urging Kalonzo not to waste time any further. Come join our team and let us form the next government together,” he said.  Mwala MP Vincent Musau said the Akamba will have a huge stake in the Kenya Kwanza government and cautioned the community against political gambling in the August 9 General Election.  "You have all seen for yourselves that we are not wanted in the other (Azimio) side. You saw what they did to Kalonzo; they denied him the opportunity to speak at the burial of Kibaki and gave Raila too much time to speak yet he frustrated Kibaki’s administration. We are now strongly convinced that there is no place for the Akamba community in the Azimio camp," said Mr Musau.  He said there was no point of the community remaining in Azimio while it was clear that the Wiper leader was not going to be Raila’s running mate.  Mr Muthama asked Uhuru and Raila to desist from frustrating the Kalonzo, terming him as a highly valued leader of the Akamba community. "Uhuru and Raila must know that as a community we will not give them a free hand to frustrate Kalonzo. They must accord him the respect he deserves. Even if I am in Kenya Kwanza, I will not entertain that sort of disrespect towards Kalonzo," he said.  The late Ms Nthoki was born on April 9, 1984 to Mr Muthama and his estranged wife, Joyce Nzisa. She passed on after a short illness few days after celebrating her 38th birthday.  By Kennedy Gachuhi | 31 minutes ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 12 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 21 hours ago By Sharon Wanga | 22 hours ago