Screenshots doing rounds in social media indicating that US Vice President Kamala Harris and Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu have congratulated Martha Karua for her nomination as Raila Odinga’s running mate are doctored and manipulated.  The screenshots had been widely circulated on WhatsApp platforms creating a buzz.  This comes a few hours after the former Justice Minister was officially unveiled as the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance presidential running mate with Raila Odinga for the August 9 polls.  Since then, her followers had taken to social media including Twitter where they sent her congratulatory messages. The Standard’s Fact-Check Desk made an effort to get a comment from Martha Karua but unfortunately, calls went unanswered.  We checked her verified Twitter account and established that the last update she posted was 21 hours earlier where she congratulated the people of Kamukunji in Nairobi for the love they had shown to the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance.    On the other hand, President Samia had not posted such a tweet. Her last tweet was on May 14, when she congratulated Sheikh Mohamed Zayed for being elected as the Third President of UAE.https://twitter.com/SuluhuSamia/status/1525437091785715714  “On behalf of the Government and the people of Tanzania, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Sheikh @MohamedbinZayed for being elected as the Third President of UAE. Rest assured of our continued cooperation with UAE,” read the tweet.    Kamala Harris has two Twitter accounts, one under her name @KamalaHarris and the other one @VP  On her personal account, the last update was made on May 14, which is a video with “The future of our country and world will be shaped by the next generation,” as the caption.    On the Vice President account, the last update was made 17 hours when Kamala said she was travelling to the United Arab Emirates.  “I am travelling to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates to express condolences on the passing of the President of the UAE, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. I will emphasize the importance our partnership and the desire to further strengthen our ties,” the post read.    The Standard, therefore, concludes that two posts are not from their verified accounts and manipulated.  By Reuters | 5 days ago By Standard Reporter | 11 days ago By Patrick Alushula | 19 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 month ago