In a statement that still reverberates across the world, legendary Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi once said “be the change you wish you wish to see in the world.”  The import of his weighty statement was that being active rather than passive in a change process is worthwhile in make the world a better place. This should be the rallying call as we head to the August 9 General Election.  There’s no such thing as a vote that doesn’t matter. Partaking our civic duties will go a long way in make Kenya great.  The late President Mwai Kibaki is best remembered for having made change possible. The good words that followed his deeds prove the Third president touched lives in many ways.  He is best remembered for implementing free primary education, introducing basic and affordable health care access to all and rehabilitating roads and other crucial infrastructure.  In many ways never imagine, the late Kibaki put his country before self. Like Kibaki did, we can all work towards ushering in change on August 9. Time has come for the youth to rise to the occasion and use the power of their vote. The success of a nation is measured by the quality of its leaders and their ability to embrace fact-based policies.In emphasising the role of capable leadership in a country’s destiny, John F Kennedy, the 35th US President once said “for one true measure of a nation is its success in fulfilling the promise of a better life for each of its members. Let this be the measure of our nation.”  Let’s be optimists, not pessimists. It should be remembered that when we fail to vote wisely, history will judge us harshly.  We won’t be measured by how many corrupt politicians we elect, but the how leaders in office are able to use their positions to deliver better lives. As a budding politician, I believe in adding value in everything I do. There are things we can achieve by being more engaged rather than waiting for manna from heaven.  There recent fuel crisis, for instance, should have awakened the mythical middle class who do not vote and have zero interest in politics and think that demonstrations are a preserve of the idle, to do more to make a difference.  The hitherto disadvantaged segments of the society must rise to the occasion. Women and youth must speak up so that they voices are heard in this election. Nothing stops us from making sound decisions at the ballot since the future of Kenya wholly depends on it.  The writer is Roysambu MP aspirant  By XN Iraki | 1 hour ago By Surjit Flora | 6 hours ago By Isaac Kalua | 7 hours ago By Barrack Muluka | 7 hours ago