Deputy President William Ruto consults with his running mate Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua during the funeral service for the late James Reriani Gachagu in Mathira constituency Nyeri county on May 17, 2022. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  Kenya Kwanza leaders have trashed the nomination of Narc Kenya party leader as Raila Odinga's running mate.  Leaders who spoke in Mathira today during the burial of James Reriaini Gachagua, the stepbrother to Deputy President Ruto's running mate and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, the team said Karua's nomination will not influence the region to vote for Raila.  The leaders further fashioned the Raila-Ruto contest as that of the 'old versus the young' and that which was between the visionary and dreamers.  "This is a bit aimed at misleading women to vote for Raila. But we are not looking for one position but equal positions in government. We need a 50 per cent representation in government and we have faith in Ruto's government," said Kandara MP Alice Wahome. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the move was meant to confuse the region and likened it to ''putting a cherry in a poisoned cake''.      "We know Raila's record, he swore himself as president," he said.  Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Mt Kenya can only be safe with Gachagua around Ruto.  "Gachagua is a firm and intelligent leader who agitates for the rights of the downtrodden. We must now support the two and wake up early to vote for the duo on August 9," the MP said.  Leaders from Mt Kenya East present reaffirmed their support for Ruto saying that their region will not bolt out after their son Senator Kithure Kindiki failed to secure the Kenya Kwanza coalition running mate.  Led by Governor Muthoni Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and Women rep Beatrice Nkatha they said they will all rally behind Gachagua.  "It was only a friendly match and it was a must for a captain to pick his preferred deputy captain. There should be no fallouts," Njuki said.  He said an Azimio Government would be a troublesome government should Raila will be elected President citing incidences where Karua differed with the late President Mwai Kibaki.  By Gilda Naibei | 35 minutes ago By Standard Team | 35 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 35 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 35 minutes ago