The Azimio la Umoja - One Kenya Coalition’s  running mate selection panel has made public the qualifications one must have to be considered for the country’s second-top job as the selection process starts.  On Wednesday last week, the coalition’s presidential flag bearer, Raila Odinga, named the seven panellists who will pick his running mate.  In a press release on Sunday, May 1, Elizabeth Meyo, the panel’s secretary, said the process will be completed in the next nine days.  “The selection and vetting process shall be finalized by the 10th of May 2022. Thereafter, the successful candidate shall be unveiled to the public by the Rt. Hon. Raila Odinga,” Meyo announced.  Candidates considered for the post will have a meeting with the panel on diverse days between Wednesday, May 4 and Tuesday, May 10. She also gave a list of qualifications the candidates must possess to be considered Raila’s deputy in the August 9 General Elections.  The panel has reiterated that the candidates must have the following qualities:  Fidelity to the Constitution of Kenya with particular emphasis on the qualification for nomination as a Deputy Presidential Candidate.  The candidates must also Demonstrate in word and deed, that nomination to the high office of Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya is a public trust to be exercised in a manner that— demonstrates respect for the people, brings honour to the nation and dignity to the office, promotes public confidence in the integrity of the office and demonstrates the value that nomination to the office is a responsibility to serve the people, rather than the power to rule them.  In addition, the panel also wants eligible candidates to demonstrate fidelity to the following guiding principles of leadership and integrity: personal integrity in public and private life, objectivity and impartiality in decision making, and ensuring that decisions are not influenced by nepotism, favouritism, other improper motives or corrupt practices and the selfless service based solely on the public interest, demonstrated by honesty in the execution of public duties and the declaration of any personal interest that may conflict with public duties.    Other requirements by the panel are; accountability to the public for decisions and actions and discipline and commitment in service to the people.  The panel appreciates the humility of eminent persons for agreeing to be part of this noble process.  “All the potential candidates that will be considered will be Eminent Kenyans with a demonstrated record of public leadership and service,” Meyo added.  The newly constituted panel is made up of Bishop Peter Njenga, Archbishop Zacchaeus Okoth, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Michael Orwa, Noah Wekesa, Sheikh Mohamed Khalifa and Beatrice Askul Moe.  During formation, Azimio la Umoja Secretary-General Junet Mohamed told journalists in Nairobi that Raila arrived at the seven names after consultations with the Azimio council, chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta and which includes Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Narc Kenya's Martha Karua.  By Jacob Ng’etich | 5 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 7 hours ago By Sharon Wanga | 7 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 10 hours ago