Excitement and hope emerged when the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee was appointed on November 11, 2021. Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed disbanded Football Kenya Federation over allegations of misappropriation of funds. She then installed the 13-member committee to run football for six months, which ends today.  But despite the committee taking over, there is nothing to write home about. The state of the beautiful game remains shaky. In fact, it is worse than they found it.  Kenya is under a Fifa suspension due to government interference, delayed payment of referees’ salaries and disbursement of funds to clubs. The suspension was ratified in Doha, Qatar, on March 31 during the Fifa congress after the government failed to meet conditions set out by the body. The move has had huge implications on players, coaches, referees and club owners.  Yesterday, the CS promised to provide a clear roadmap on the future of football tomorrow after receiving the report from the caretaker committee. The committee led by retired judge Aaron Ringera came up with a raft of recommendations. They proposed that the FKF constitution be amended to conform with the Kenya Constitution and Sports Act.  The committee has developed a draft constitution, that is annexed to this report, which we recommend be shared with FIFA and, subject to its concurrence, be subjected to a validation process by members of FKF and adopted by the General Assembly as the amended Constitution of FKF. Among others, the report calls for a more transparent and accountable governance system that involves disclosure of information including FKF's sources of funding to its members and that these funds be used to develop sports and for infrastructure development.  We hope and pray that the recommendations of the committee will serve as the springboard that will propel our football from the pit of ignominy, where it lies now, to a glorious future.  By Njau Gitu | 2 hours ago By Editorial | 8 hours ago By Raphael Obonyo | 8 hours ago By Caroline Kibii | 8 hours ago