Azimio la Umoja One Kenya leaders led by Martha Karua yesterday took their campaign to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard in Kiambu where they urged Mt Kenya region to rally behind Raila Odinga.  Speaking in Gatundu, Ms Karua dismissed claims that Uhuru would exit the political scene without grooming a successor.  “There is no leadership vacuum in Mt Kenya as alleged by Kenya Kwanza. The mountain is safe in my hands and I urge our people to follow the direction we are taking,” she said.    The Narc-Kenya leader, who is Raila’s running mate, said she is best suited to take charge of Mt Kenya affairs than those coalescing around Deputy President William Ruto. Addressing rallies in Limuru, Kiambaa, Kiambu Town, Gatundu South, Thika, Juja and Ruiru constituencies, Ms Karua, maintained that the Azimio coalition leaders have a track record of defending the interests of Kenyans.  She was accompanied by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Jubilee Party Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni, MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Jude Njomo (Kiambu) and Peter Mwathi (Limuru) among others. Ms Karua told Kenya Kwanza leaders to be sincere with Mt Kenya residents instead of selling propaganda.  “I am challenging our competitors to identify even one development project they have implemented for a single village in Mt Kenya. If whatever positions they have held in the past are littered with corruption then just understand the promises they are making now will not be kept,” she told residents in Ruaka, Kiambaa.  “Even as a parent, you know which of your children you can send to the shop and they will come back with the balance. There is only one horse in this contest which is Azimio which you can trust with public funds and future generations,” she said.  The Narc Kenya leader told Kenya Kwanza leaders to concede defeat if Azimio wins the August 9 General Election. “We are asking our competitors that the moment we shall defeat them, they will respect the outcome and move on as peace-loving Kenyans,” she said.  Ms Karua said Raila’s fight against graft will ensure prudent expenditure of public funds. “Raila and I are the father and mother of devolution through the 2010 Construction. We are therefore the best team to drive our country forward by ensuring enough funds are devolved to the counties by sealing loopholes of corruption,” she said.  She said the Azimio presidential candidate will cushion Kenyans from the high cost of healthcare through ‘Babacare programme.  Governor Nyoro asked residents to rally behind the Raila-Karua ticket saying the region will reap big if Azimio wins.  By Nathan Ochunge | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 1 hour ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago