The Democratic Action Party-Kenya (DAP-K) has denied claims of a zoning deal with the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM).  Secretary-General Eseli Simiyu said the rumours gained currency when the party’s deputy patron Ayub Savula dropped his Kakamega governorship bid to back ODM’s Fernandez Barasa.  “Let it be clear (that) all candidates who have our tickets are safe and will get to the ballot. What we dropped from is the governorship race alone. Let our political detractors not mislead anyone,” he said.    Speaking to the Standard on Saturday, DAP-K aspirants in Kakamega and Busia had expressed fears zoning would compromise the tenets of democracy. “If indeed there is zoning, let it be through mutual agreement between candidates and no one should coerce unwilling candidates to get into it. Many of us are in DAP-K courtesy of messed up party primaries in major Azimio parties,” said Justus Kizito, Shinyalu MP, who is defending his seat on the party’s ticket.  “I think for the good of Azimio and the good of Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga, we should be left to vie on whatever ticket so that we whip our supporters to turn out in large numbers to elect Raila and beat Kenya Kwanza from the grassroots,” Kizito said.  Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said even though their party boss Wafula Wamunyinyi had set the record straight that there would be no zoning in Busia, there is still need for Azimio to clear the air.  “We need a clarification from the Azimio secretariat to end the growing anxiety among DAP-K aspirants,” he said. “Let us only be concerned with how we will make Raila president.”  Nominated senator Naomi Shionga (ODM), who is eyeing the Kakamega Woman Rep seat, said only a formal communication could stop her bid.  “I am obedient to my party constitution and all my party bosses in DAP-K and Azimio. Should they tell me to step down and I realise that would serve the good for the party or alliance, I will do so,” she said.  “In politics you must not always have your way,” she said.  Mumias East parliamentary contestant Peter Salasyia said there was “no way I can step down for another candidate because I believe I am the most popular.”  Timothy Vikiru, who is vying for the Lurambi MP seat, travelled from Kakamega to Nairobi on Thursday to seek clarification on the issue.  By Omelo Juliet | 3 days ago By Mumo Munuve | 3 days ago By Alexander Chagema and Jackline Inyanji | 4 days ago By Jackline Inyanji | 4 days ago