Fresh details of the shooting of a motorist along Roysambu-Lumumba drive in Nairobi have now emerged, including CCTV footage.  A postmortem examination has also revealed that the man identified as Samuel Mugota, 40, died of excessive bleeding after he was shot in the head and chest.  Initial police reports indicated Mugota was shot dead in Mirema estate, Roysambu on Monday evening, moments after he dropped a woman at her residence.  At the time, it was reported that the man had been shot nine times in gang-land style. Yesterday, the family of the man witnessed the postmortem examination conducted at the city mortuary.  After the examination, the family was allowed to move the body to a mortuary of their choice.  The Standard yesterday visited the scene of the shooting and managed to obtain CCTV footage of the gruesome murder.  Footage from an adjacent building reveals that the shooting took place at 13.57pm.    Empty street  In the footage, the normally busy street appear almost empty with only the victim’s car driving by and a female pedestrian walking on the opposite direction.  Mugota’s silver grey Honda CRV is seen driving at a slow speed. The lone gunman is captured walking from the opposite direction.  The driver of the vehicle had lowered his window and suddenly a hail of bullets is sprayed into the car from the driver’s window.  The car slowed down and the lone gunman dressed in a blue cap, a matching blue coat and a pair of jeans, walks away casually.  He boards a grey motor vehicle that seem to have been waiting for him (the gunman) barely five meters from the scene of the shooting.  Details of the getaway vehicle were not captured by the CCTV camera. Yesterday, family members declined a request by The Standard for an interview.  Kasarani DCI boss Vincent Kipkorir told The Standard police had opened investigations into the shooting.  Kipkorir said investigators are seeking witnesses’ accounts and CCTV recordings to unravel the murder. The investigations chief ruled out the possibility that security officers were involved in the shooting of the man.   Other police sources said officers had managed to recover seven different national identity cards from the vehicle.  The sources claimed Mugota was a known criminal who was being sought by the police.  The sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said Mugota was suspected to be the kingpin of a criminal racket that involved women who spike drinks of revelers in bars before stealing from them.  According to the sources, It was Mugota who ended up with some of the stolen mobile phones and which, using his IT skills, he used to access banks accounts of individuals where he siphoned millions of shilling. He also accessed mobile money platforms using the captured phones.  The sources claimed that in 2019, Mugota was arrested by officers from the Flying squad but was not charged in court.  By Stephanie Wangari | 1 day ago By Collins Kweyu | 3 days ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 6 days ago