The Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and Dock Workers Union (DWU) have announced fresh talks to resolve disputes that have rocked the agency for a long time, including the controversy over the delayed promotion of staff.  DWU general secretary Simon Sang, who spoke during Labour Day celebrations at Tononoka grounds in Mombasa on Sunday, said a team has been formed to spearhead the talks.  Sang said KPA acting managing director John Mwangemi is expected to appoint a representative to sit in the reconciliation committee recently formed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection to resolve the about 600 issues the agency and the union have disagreed upon.  Mwangemi's representative will replace KPA Human and Administration General Manager Daniel Ogutu, whose three-year contract expired last month but was not renewed.  The MD has made several changes in the management of the port to streamline operations.   "We are waiting for the KPA managing director to appoint his representative as we seek to resolve the pending issues as soon as we possibly can," said Sang.  He added: "It is the KPA that is delaying efforts to resolve these disputes, including promotion of workers some of whom have been acting on their positions for seven years without being confirmed."  Sang explained that there are some cases the union took to Labour and Employment court but were referred back by the Ministry of Labour for reconciliation.  He said he is hopeful the issues will be resolved in the shortest time possible following the appointment of the Mombasa Labour Officer as the chairman of the conciliation committee.  “As a union, we are ready for the meeting this week. We are waiting for KPA to appoint its representative so we can start working on the issues,” said Sang  He said some of these disputes could have been avoided had the KPA management followed the human resources manual rules that followed the new constitution.  Sang who commended President Uhuru Kenyatta for increasing the minimum wages for workers by 12 per cent asked the government to devolve labour disputes so they can be resolved at the county level.  “We do not need to go to Nairobi to resolve labour disputes involving workers and their employers in Mombasa because there are competent government labour officers in every county,” said Sang.   Other than delayed promotions, KPA and the workers' union have been fighting over salary increments and payment for extra hours worked.  DWU represents 4,400 unionisable workers plus 200 Kenya Ferry Services workers who were absorbed by KPA early last year.  By Philip Mwakio | 9 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 11 hours ago By Bernard Sanga | 1 day ago By Joackim Bwana | 5 days ago