Nominated MP David Ole Sankok (in green) [Jonah Onyango, Standard]  Detectives have seized nominated MP David Ole Sankok’s firearm for ballistic analysis.  This follows Monday afternoon's incident where the legislator's 15-year-old son, Memusi Sankok, reportedly shot himself dead using his father's pistol.  Detectives, led by Narok Criminal Investigations Officer Mwenda Ethaiba, have also visited Sankok's Ewaso Nyiro home in Narok South and recorded statements.  Ethaiba said the gun will be taken for ballistic analysis at the Kenya Police Crime Laboratory headquarters in Nairobi. He said the weapon was confiscated for further analysis after post-mortem results revealed the late Memusi died of a gunshot inflicted wound.  The deceased is said to have shot himself in the chin and the bullet exiting through the back head.  Memusi is said to have taken his life after a disagreement with his father who wanted him to report back to Kericho High School against the boy's wish. According to the family, the boy was to return to school last week. He was in Form Three.    Reports indicated that Sankok summoned the boy for a talk about the school on Monday morning. The boy reportedly insisted he was tired of school. After the discussion, Memusi gave in and agreed to go back to school on Tuesday.  The incident took place as Mr Sankok was supervising the installation of CCTV at his Osim Country Lodge, just 100 meters from his home.  Speaking to journalists at his office on Wednesday, Mr Ethaiba confirmed that the post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday afternoon before the family, DCI officers, and government medical representatives.  "I can now confirm that the post-mortem has been done. Being a matter of public interest, we are working round the clock to resolve this matter as soon as possible," the DCI boss said as he cautioned against speculation on the matter.  Ethaiba said they will also be seeking to establish if the firearm was licensed.  This came as officials from the National Council of People Living with Disability continued to throng the MP's home to console the family.  By George Maringa | 2 hours ago By Mike Kihaki | 20 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 20 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 20 hours ago