Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to put in place strategies to address governance and development issues in government.  Speaking in Nakuru yesterday, Mr Ngunjiri said President Kenyatta’s speech during the Labour Day celebrations on May 1 was a pointer to simmering anger over failures in his administration.  “Nothing good comes out of anger. What the President displayed in public is dangerous for this country especially now that we are heading to the General Election,” he said.    The MP noted that the speech laid bare the President’s frustrations after failing to achieve his aspirations during his second term in office. “Mr President, the more you talk, the more you are messing yourself. Get the right people to advise you. Kenya had three other presidents. None finished the problems of this country, neither will you,” he said.  Mr Ngunjiri challenged the President to change his advisors saying that the current ones had failed to tell him to stop engaging in succession politics and focus on building his legacy.  “This is not the time to display anger no matter what. It is time to build cohesion. Instead, his advisors seem to be taking our President to focus his energy on his succession rather that his own legacy,” he said.  In his address, President Kenyatta said that he was forced to bring on board ODM leader Minister Raila Odinga after Deputy President William Ruto started engaging in early campaings.  Mr Ngunjiri claimed that the handshake between Uhuru and Raila was a bad idea since it removed focus on Jubilee agenda and exposed Kenyans to undue socio-economic suffering.  “Bringing Raila in government was the worst idea. It is thereafter that we have seen runaway graft, punishing economic policies and leading by orders instead of the law,” he said.  The legislator challenged the President to look into why Ruto was becoming popular saying that this will paint a picture of the failures in the Jubilee administration.  “If Uhuru puts politics aside and his perceived hate for Ruto, he will see where he has gone wrong. He will realize why many people including those in his Kiambu backyard are supporting Ruto,” said Mr Ngunjiri.  The MP urged the President to let Kenyans decide their next President.  “The writing is on the wall that Mt Kenya region is slipping out of Uhuru’s hand. He should acknowledge that the Kenyans will not be coerced to elect a particular leader. He should borrow a leaf from former President Daniel Moi who sought forgiveness and reciprocated it,” he said.  He said Uhuru has himself to blame for the failures of his administration after giving too much power and responsibilities to the office of the Ministry of Interior.  “A lot of functions have been given to Dr Fred Matiang’i and from the President’s explanation, he has not lived up to the expectations. He kicked Ruto out of government and is now feeling the heat,” he claimed.  By Erastus Mulwa | 12 minutes ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 12 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 21 hours ago By Sharon Wanga | 22 hours ago