Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi during a press conference at Sports Club in Eldoret on January 5, 2022. [Christopher Kipsang, Standard]  Various aspirants in Uasin Gishu County have been cleared to vie for elective positions in the coming elections after presenting their papers to the Independent and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, seeking a third term as the constituency's MP was also cleared at the Kapseret IEBC offices.  Sudi who was the first to be cleared at the offices arrived at 8:30 am to collect his clearance certificate.  At 12 noon, his rival eyeing the MP seat on an independent ticket, Francis Murgor was also cleared and awarded his certificate. Kesses MP Dr Swarup Mishra who is seeking to retain his seat through an independent ticket was cleared yesterday morning at St Luke's High School in Cheptiret.  After the 20 minute – exercise, Dr Mishra expressed his optimism, saying that he was now going to hit the ground running campaigning for his bid.  The MP thanked the IEBC for conducting the exercise in a timely manner, urging that the elections be also conducted in a free and fair manner.  "I urge the people of Kesses to vote wisely and democratically. Let us avoid misunderstandings or disputes and choose peace throughout this campaign period and even after elections," said Dr Mishra.  Dr Mishra said that he had got more than 8,000 signatures to vie for the seat.   Dr Mishra will be facing off with UDA's Julius Ruto and three other independent candidates who are yet to be cleared.  The  Kesses Sub-County IEBC Returning Officer Matthew Chenger said that Dr Mishra was the first aspirant to be cleared and that they were expecting four more gazetted candidates to submit their documents for clearance.  "Two other candidates - Alex Kemboi and Stephen Teugut- came, but we had to send them away for failing to meet the requirements of the needed 1,000 copies of Identity cards," Chenger said.  Chenger said that Mr Rutto was expected to arrive at the IEBC centre yesterday evening.  The clearance exercise of aspiring Members of the National Assembly will be closed on Tuesday at 4 pm while the clearance of the MCAs is set to begin thereafter.   Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago was cleared to contest for the county senate seat at the IEBC County headquarters at Kenmosa Village.  Mandago said that he would campaign and would strengthen devolution as a senator.  In Nandi, Woman Rep Dr Tecla Tum was cleared by IEBC to vie for Emgwen Parliamentary seat, where she vowed to claim victory she was robbed in the UDA party primaries.  Speaking after presenting her documents for approval at Kapsabet IEBC offices, Dr Tum maintained that her claims will be vindicated in a free and fair election that would be conducted by the electoral body.  "There was a litany of malpractices in the UDA nomination process, and I became one of the victims they were rigged out. But that's over, I am going back to the electorate to consider me in the election," she stated.  This comes a few days after the Deputy President William Ruto-led party led by the designated running-mate, Rigathi Gachagua, campaigned against the independent candidates in the region.  UDA candidate Joses Lelmengit submitted his documents for approval and expressed confidence that he will win the election.  "This is a UDA zone and the people would vote for the party with the ideal economic agenda. And I'm equal to the task to serve the residents and ensure that the bottom-up economic model is implemented," he stated.  By Grace Ng'ang'a | 48 minutes ago By Stephanie Wangari | 2 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 3 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 5 hours ago