President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered the increase of minimum wage by 12 percentage points effective May 1, 2022.  The increase, which comes four years since the last review, is aimed at cushioning Kenyan workers from the high cost of living occasioned by the Covid-19 Pandemic.  During his final labour day speech at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday, the president responded to an earlier request by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary-General Francis Atwoli.  Atwoli had asked the president to increase the minimum wage by 23.4 per cent prompting the Head of State’s response.  “I today declare an increase of minimum wage by 12 per cent with effect from May 1, 2022, I mean today,” the president declared, sending workers present to a celebratory mood. When effected, the increase will mean that a Kenyan worker whose current minimum wage is 13,500 will get Sh15,120 after the increase.  Moreover, President Uhuru has also ordered Labor CS Simon Chelugui to gazette a member of COTU to the NSSF board of Trustees.  This, according to KTN News' Senior Business Reporter Brenda Kerubo, means that CS Chelugui has until Wednesday, May 4 to gazette Rose Omamo, a member of the COTU executive and the secretary-general of the Amalgamated Workers Union to seat on the NSSF board of Trustees.  While heaping praises on Kenyan workers in the diaspora, Uhuru disclosed that Kenyans working abroad used to remit bask Sh 117billion, a figure which has almost tripled to Sh375 billion annually.  “World bank indicated that Kenya will have a productive workforce in Africa by 2036 if we continue at the same pace. I recognize Kenyan workers in the diaspora which is one of the biggest resources in our country. Kenya has the third largest skilled workforce in America,” Uhuru said.  He said Kenyans had dominated Information Communicating and Technology (ICT), Education, Healthcare and Tourism and Hospitality Sectors.  The president also warned oil marketers against business malpractices that lead to a fuel shortage in the country, thus affecting the economic growth and productivity of the country.  “It is an offence for some people to take advantage of the subsidy money. If someone will use subsidy, then sell to other countries at a higher price, we shall deal with you and that is a promise,” he said.  Then went on “This is Kenyan taxpayers’ money. We know you are selling the oil outside Kenya for higher profits. Let me be clear that we are not helping other countries, but our people,”  Additional Reporting by Brenda Kerubo     By Patrick Alushula | 2 hours ago By Frankline Sunday | 13 hours ago By Frankline Sunday | 14 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 1 day ago