Several political aspirants in the forthcoming August 9 polls were forced to wait for hours at various IBEC stations as the commission started the verification and clearance exercise.  Those who were cleared said the process took more than three hours.  In Siaya County, current Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi was cleared by IEBC to defend his seat in the coming elections.    He called for peace as campaigns start saying he is confident that the constituency will vote for ODM at 99 percent with other parties only sharing the 1 percent. "I have gone through the nomination process successfully. We expect other candidates running around to try their luck to conduct themselves peacefully and with decorum. "  Slight hitches with the documentation of Dr Francis Odawa who is an aspirant for Ugunja parliamentary seat delayed the exercise. He was cleared later in the afternoon.  Ugunja Returning officer Okiki Odero confirmed that there were slight issues with Dr Odawa's documentation.  Odawa called for tolerance and peace during campaigns and asked his competitors to sell their agendas and manifestos without intimidating other aspirants.  Ugenya's David Ochieng called for peaceful campaigns and asked for candidates to sell their manifestos as they focus on Raila's presidency.  He said that Raila has made it clear in his rallies that for all parties in Azimio, it will be six-piece and not individual parties.  In Ugenya Constituency, ODM aspirant Daniel Odhiambo’s documents were verified by Mr Leonard Wekesa, the constituency’s returning officer who confirmed that the system was slow.  He said that Raila has made it clear in his rallies that for all parties in Azimio, it will be six-piece and not individual parties.  Ochieng who is vying with Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG) said his party will win in all the seats they are vying for including Kisumu governor  Nyamira Senator Okongo Mogeni was the first person to be cleared by IEBC at the county headquarters as he seeks to defend his seat.  The advocate was accompanied by his wife who is also a Lands and Environment Court Judge, Justice Jackline Mogeni.  Also cleared by IEBC to vie for the Senate seat was Nyamira Nominated MCA Onyancha Boera. Onyancha is seeking the Senate seat on DAPK ticket.  The commission gave West Mugirango Lawyer Steve Mogaka who is seeking to unseat Vincent Kemosi on a Jubilee Party a go-ahead. Others eyeing the seat are Ken Achoki and Fred Makamara.  The IEBC office in Kisii County allowed Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tongi of the Jubilee party and his main opponent James Kenani of ODM to battle it out in the August 9 poll.  Kanu's Ken Omanga was cleared to run for the Senate seat while Jimmy Angwenyi of Jubilee was cleared to defend his Kitutu Chache North Parliamentary seat.  In Kisii, the commission cleared Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tongi of the Jubilee party and his main opponent James Kenani of ODM.  The two leaders called for peaceful campaigns. They also cited delays by the IEBC systems saying they had spent more than four each waiting for clearance.  Kanu's Ken Omanga was cleared to run for the Senate seat while Jimmy Angwenyi of Jubilee was cleared to defend his Kitutu Chache North Parliamentary seat.  UDA's Zaheer Jhanda was also cleared for his third-time bid for the Nyaribari Chache seat.  Zaheer later held rallies across the Constituency including in Keumbu, Kiogoro and Kisii Town.  In Ugenya Constituency, ODM aspirant Daniel Odhiambo was cleared in the morning hours.  Leonard Wekesa the Ugenya returning officer said the system was slow.In Migori County, a section of aspirants who are eying the parliamentary seats was the first to submit their papers to the IEBC offices situated at their constituencies.  Rongo MP Paul Abuor, Awendo MP Walter Owino, Nyatike MP Tom Odege and former Suna West MP Joseph Ndiege who is seeking to unseat the incumbent Peter Masara also presented their papers to IEBC.  Ndiege who battled at the April 18 nominations to get an ODM ticket picked an independent ticket when he was floored by Masara.  Other aspirants in the county are yet to submit their papers to the IEBC.  Aspirants such as Awendo MP Walter Owino who also bagged an ODM direct certificate will present his papers on May 30.  Robert Okongo who is eying the county's gubernatorial race plans to submit his on June 7.  By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo and Isaiah Gwengi | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 3 days ago By Eric Abuga | 4 days ago