NARC-Kenya party leader and former Gichugu Member of Parliament has expressed her optimism shortly after being named the Azimio-One Kenya coalition running mate in the August 9 polls.  Raila Odinga, the coalition’s presidential candidate named Karua as his running mate at the Kenya International Convention Center (KICC) grounds today.  Karua said that she was ‘ready, able and willing to deputise Raila Odinga if the coalition clinches the country’s most powerful office, the presidency.  “We are responding to a higher calling because our dreams were deferred in 2002. I am ready able and willing to work with you (Raila Odinga). I will not let you down because I will be diligent in pursuit of our common dreams,” Karua said.  Moreover, Karua accepted the major responsibility that Odinga had tasked her with which is re-looking and improving the Constitution of Kenya 2010. “I have accepted the responsibility you have given me your excellency and I vow to look at a constitution but within the rule of law,” Karua reiterated.  While unveiling his running mate, Odinga tasked Karua to improve the Constitution of Kenya 2010 by assessing its practicality.  On the other hand, Karua praised the ODM party leader as a ‘women defender’ who introduced to parliament a motion to create the Gender Commission, an independent body that addresses gender-based issues.  “This a moment for Kenyan women. It is a moment that my late grandmother would have been proud of. Women are instrumental in pursuing change and this is why this is the moment to usher more women in national and county level to this leadership positions,” Karua said.  If the duo wins the upcoming General Election, then Martha Karua will be Kenya's first Deputy President as well as the overseer in matters involving the justice system and constitutional affairs.  “This a moment for Kenyan women. It is a moment that my late grandmother would have been proud of. Women are instrumental in pursuing change and this is why this is the moment to usher more women in national and county level to this leadership positions,” Karua said.  Despite Odinga giving Karua the added responsibilities, they are not recognised in the constitution.  By Mike Kihaki | 12 minutes ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 1 hour ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 1 hour ago By Stephanie Wangari | 1 hour ago