Deputy President William Ruto has come to Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s defence, over reports of being subjected to interviews for the position of the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya presidential running mate.  Ruto, through his Twitter page, termed the process as ‘punitive.’  The DP wrote: “Though we are competitors, to subject Kalonzo to some humiliating 'interview' is impunity. We must unite to eliminate the culture of political deceit, the hallmark of some politicians. Whatever the circumstances every leader deserves some dignity and respect. Heshima si utumwa.”  Kalonzo who has now thrown the spanner into the works of the Coalition’s search for a Raila Odinga’s running mate rubbished the planned selection panel interviews as “demeaning to a person of his status.”  According to Kalonzo, the coalition knows that he is best placed to be Odinga’s running mate, but was involved in an unnecessarily circuitous process meant to achieve nothing much. “I want to tell all Kenyans that I will not attend the said process. I find the entire thing demeaning to my person and will therefore distance myself from it,” he said The Standard on phone.    Leaders allied to the Azimio-la Umoja brigade have also come out in support of the former Vice President.  Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege while commenting on the issue said they [Azimio] would not want to upset Kalonzo, and want to treat him very well.  Speaking on NTV on Tuesday, Chege said, “We have decided to be transparent. Kalonzo Musyoka and Raila Odinga normally have tea. One of the most respected persons in our council and in the coalition is Kalonzo Musyoka. He is one person who is a pillar and one we would not want to upset.”  Analysts have opined that Ruto stirred the pot during Kibaki’s funeral in Othaya last weekend. His apparent defence for the former Vice President was evident when he rose to speak, by recognising his presence.  The selection panel appointed by Raila Odinga is expected to complete the vetting process and suggest a candidate to be Odinga’s running mate by May 10.  Potential candidates for the position include Kalonzo Musyoka, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, and Kieni MP Kanini Kega.  By Judah Ben-Hur and Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 15 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 15 hours ago