A hearse with the coffin bearing the remains of Hillary Memusi led a funeral procession into Enkare Ng’iro Primary School grounds in Narok County.  Following closely was a vehicle ferrying close family members of nominated MP David Sankok.  It stopped in the middle of the compound with tents that were put up for mourners, so Sankok, who was seated in the passenger seat, could disembark.    He was escorted to a nearby tent reserved for family members.  His wife and children followed as the pallbearers placed the casket in one of the tents.  The family of the MP held each other as the funeral ceremony was going on.  Memusi, a Second Former at Kericho High School, is alleged to have shot himself on May 2 with his father’s shotgun.  Two postmortem examinations conducted at Longisa Hospital and Umash Funeral home confirmed he died from a single gunshot.  The family eulogised their son as a cheeky boy with a sense of humour. In the eulogy, the cause of his death was not revealed.  “It is that memory of Memusi that makes it hard for us as a family to comprehend this moment.  “It is strange, unreal, unbelievable, that Memusi will no longer be with us. It will take us a long, long time if ever, for to come to terms with his death,” read the eulogy in part.  Memusi was buried a day after a second postmortem was conducted. Detectives led by Narok Criminal Investigations Officer Mwenda Ethaiba said they must get to the bottom of the matter.  Samples for further analysis were also taken.  Leaders allied to Kenya Kwanza Coalition led by Narok Governor Samuel Tunai attended the burial ceremony.  Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, former CAS and Narok governor aspirant Patrick Ntutu, Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno among others also attended the burial.  In a message of condolences to the family, Deputy President William Ruto said Memusi was friendly, hardworking and responsible.  He said he was a young man who had just started his journey.  Governor Tunai described Memusi as ‘’their child’’.  “This is our child. We are all at a loss. We are not only friends when we come to celebrate. We are friends even when you cry. The entire nation is in mourning,” Tunai said.  Governor Sang appealed to the agencies investigating the death of Memusi to be mindful of the family.  “We know lots of questions are being asked but we pray for the family and are calling on the agencies not to give the family more pain,” Governor Sang said.  “We want the government do a professional work and not add pain.”  Ntutu called on the government agencies to allow them move on.  “Whatever happened, let’s leave it to God. Let us bury our son and move on,” he said.  Narok West MP Gabriel Tongoyo said the family should be given time to mourn.  “We loved the child. He left us abruptly. The family is still mourning.  “Allow them time and space to mourn even as you conduct investigations,” he said.  By Edward Kosut | 10 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 14 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 14 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago