Kanu national chairman Gideon Moi will defend his Baringo Senate seat in the General Elections after he was cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) today.  County Returning Officer John Mwangi said Gideon had fulfilled all the conditions set out in the electoral law.  "You are validly nominated for the Senate election to be held on August 9," said Mr Mwangi.  The electoral agency also cleared two other Senate candidates, Salina Korir of ODM party and Felix Chelaite of Service Party (TSP).  Florence Kemboi, an independent candidate was given up to today to update the list of her supporters. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo is among those who will be cleared today.  Gideon successfully defended his senatorial seat in 2017 after garnering 116,209 votes to beat Simon Chelugui of Jubilee Party and Kennedy Ayabei of ODM who got 70,182 and 3,439 votes respectively.  After receiving the IEBC clearance, Gideon brought business in the town to a near standstill as his convoy snaked through the town where he addressed residents.  The senator who was accompanied by his wife Zahra, told supporters that the journey to defend his seat has started and promised to address their plight.  "I am your child, I belong here and humbly request you to take care of me; do not let go this seat. Let it remain with us," he said.  Gideon said his focus is on leading the people of Baringo to the government where they stand to benefit more.  "You have seen the work I did for the period I have been in government. Already we have roads worth Sh9 billion. You will not suffer while I am here," he said.  He urged the locals to rally behind him and thanked them for their support and giving him the privilege to serve the county.  Zahra assured the residents that Gideon is up to task and will deliver on his pledges.  Aspirant Mrs Korir on her part said the people of Baringo want change. "I am not trying but going for it," said the former Telkom employee.  Ms Kemboi expressed confidence that she will meet the requirements by the IEBC and be cleared today.  jchepkwony@standardmedia.co.ke         By Standard Team | 7 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Christopher Kipsang and Obare Osinde | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago