The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has cleared six aspirants to vie for the Taita-Taveta County senatorial seat in the August polls.  County IEBC Elections Manager Eisha Oshan cleared the candidates at the Taita-Taveta University, the designated tallying centre for the county seats.  “I have cleared six candidates. All have met the legal and education requirements to vie for the Senate seat in the forthcoming general election,” confirmed the IEBC boss.  Among those cleared include the incumbent Senator Jones Mwaruma (ODM), former Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu (Wiper Party), Mombasa-based lawyer Stephen Odiaga (Muungano Party), Stephen Saleka Njumwa (ANC) and former firebrand Wundanyi MP Mwandawiro Mghanga (Communist Party of Kenya (CPK).  Others are Sagala Ward Rep Godwin Kilele (Jubilee) and Mike Banton (Independent candidate). The candidate for the UDA party allied to Deputy President William Ruto, John Righa Mwachofi and Anne Nyambi Kina (Peoples Empowerment Party) are expected to appear before the IEBC today or tomorrow for clearance.  At Dr Aggrey High School Boys High School in Wundanyi town, IEBC cleared the incumbent MP Danson Mwashako (Wiper), Simon Mwachia (Jubilee) and Denis Mwakwida (ODM).  Addressing the press after clearance, the candidates vowed to hit the ground running.  “I know the race is tight but I will do everything possible to retain my seat,” said Mwaruma.  Lawyer Odiaga said he will explain his policies and development agenda to the electorate to make an informed decision on who to elect.  “The voters need development conscious leaders to steer the county ahead and I have what it takes to be the next Senator. I am optimistic that I will wrestle the incumbent senator for power,” said the Lawyer.  Mr Banton said he knows when to start his campaign. “The good thing is that I have been cleared and I will marshal my arsenal to hit the ground immediately,” he said.  By Patrick Beja | 10 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 10 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 22 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago